# TL.Journal.2007\_06\_18 --

    Note to TL guys

    MEETING TODAY

    * Three points:
      - We cannot switch away from somthing without being precise about what we switched to
      - When making a switch, we cannot give the govt less, w/o also giving it more in some more impt place.
      - Ted did not finalize anything about changes to Y2, and did not announce anything to Tony about this.
      - Tony does not love us right now.  But we can change that.



    * I think I have a win-win-win plan
      - Use NRL resources in more targeted way to faciltate ISLE team.
        Allow dave to still pay his team, and lessen the burden of cuts on ISLE
      - I think the proposal also increases the ratio of science done, & has less testing costs than last years



    First what simplifications are we proposing
    (1) No human comparison tests
    (2) Provide complete action models for all domains being tested (including the surprise domain)
    (3) Provide formal guarantees about how the source and target relate

    I believe that these three simplification bound the problem to something we can actaully solve.
    If we do not limit the problem like this, we will just be building toy demos that will work, only if
    we are careful to match problem to system in an ad-hoc way.

    Not good science.  Better to restrict the problem to a formal subset, and then robustly test it 
    within that subset.  That is good science.  So how do we robustly test this formally defined space?
    * One way is to build a set of toy problems for each level that exercise the important dimensions of that level.
    * Those problems should not be crafted to match the learning systems, they should be crafted to match the important 
      dimensions of the level.
    * Note the problems can be toy problems, as long as they exercise important aspects of the level.
    * How many problems are needed?  My sense is that more that a dozen toy problems would be needed.



    Ok so the plan is that
    (1) Genereth collaboratively defines the levels, 
    (2) this determines a set of dimensions to be exercised by the toy problems
    (3) NRL builds these problems
    (4) Pats team focuses most of its resources on the science of handling those dimensions of variation


    Given this plan now lets look at what promises to make to Tony, and when to make them:
    - moving to fewer levels without promising 'more' science is dangerous.  
    - not ready to propose the fewer levels yet.
      * option #1 get ready *now*
      * option #2 
        - Ask to ignore the lowest three levels arguing they are not where the action is
        - spread the dozen or so test problems over the remaining seven levels (using the nesting trick)
        - tell tony we expect to have a reduced set of precisely defined levels in december
        - in december provide the reduced set.
      * option #3 just say "we don't have the money" for all the levels.
