# TL.Journal.2007\_05\_03a --

    Y2-KICKOFF MEETING

    40% Budget Cut

    * What happened:  (AT the diro meeting:  Accepted all 172 slides details Go/No-go w/o looking,  "lost the bubble" extemporaneous, happy but we need to cut)
      - gathered list of components & he picked 40% to cut.
      - One slide.  
    * Why did this happen?
      - DIRO support of AI/ML unwavering.  2 weeks ago, hiring me, BL launch, 
      - Made our go/no-gos
      - Accepts the science deliverd 
      Not our only boss:
      - DDRE cut cog budget.
      - Congress repeatedly cut the COG budget.  (the last cut occurred close and prior to our Y2 briefing)
      - Several Cognitive programs ACIP, ACERT, BICA.
      - "Lost the bubble"      "I know ML is a revolution of our day, but is TL delivering this, or do I put my ML money elsewhere"
      - TL program has challenge fitting the DARPA mold. 



    -------
    * Darpa is a projects agency.  
      The vision that Dr. Tether has put forward is "bridging the gap"
      My translation of this:  DARPA only pushes basic research indirectly, 
      - by identifying opportunities uncovered during course basic research, and
      - funding the 
      - Not all academic communities are equally impactful in the world, for better or worse,
        the current darpa model equates fundabilty 

    -------
    * Tony believes ML is such an opportunity.
    * But that means he expects that we can construct PROJECTS that translate/extend current basic research 
      into transitionable technology.
    * So we are not delivering the product, but we are delivering the blueprint for the revolution.
    * Idea example of a 'project' research.  Darpa grand challenge.

    * DanO believes that CS has taken a big hit because we are not packaging our stuff into transitional nuggets
    * We need transitions from TL not just for TL's sake, but for ML,AI,&CS's sake.
    -------
