# BL.Journal.2007\_06\_14 --

    CALL TO TOM ABOUT HOW I WILL INTERFACE TO SRI.

    - I am not doing the languages primer:  


    ----------------
    - I must not, will not and cannot be in a position of directing your subs.
    - I control the goals and direction of the program, but I must not, cannot, and will not direct
      your execution of those goals.
    - There must be ample opportunity for frank discussion outside ear shot of the PM.
    ----------------
    - DARPA has the job of defining the NI methods, but this should not be done in a vacuum 
    - i will push hard and will push for ambitious goals but not advarsarily.
    - I like win/win collaborative rather than adversarial relationships
    - I like intellectual sparing that drives toward consensus, and only sparingly use
      ones authority to force consesnsus.
    - 
    ----------------
    - Concerns:  That Tom is the PM, but that he would really be running it
                 -> not at meeting
                 That problems could fester & not be resolved or broght to Gov attn
                 -> policy of not showing conflict within team
                 That could not push teams to greatest effect because of control 

    --------------
    - SRI must be in control of subs and of priorities and approach taken, but
      with full transparency (including fights in team, thinking about alterantives etc.)
      Ill be honest I want that info so I can push the team, but I want to do that in a non-advarsarial way
    - It must be You 
      - you lead all planning sessions, etc.  you make decisions about direction, etc.
      - can delegate non-decision making non-planning day-to-day to roger

    ---------------






    - I like loose contracts that afford opportunities for refinement as we learn more about what is
      really possible, rather than try to dictate 15 months in advance exactly what needs to be done.

    - We must recognize that the Government, SRI, and the subs all have overlapping but different agendas.
      Our current contract is designed for maximum flexibility, contract is too loose and imprecise to operate without 
    - But in taking that approach 


    <<>>
    Relation

    "Lets all be friends"    SOW;  Go/No-gos

    So I would like to take a dual role.  
      - Listener/participant in technical choices decision.  (I cannot have asymetric authority)
      - Guiding goals & capabilities, evaluating.  (traditional PM role)



    Arms length
    - Cards close to the chest
      - Bit of extra rope.  I'm ok with that.     To do non-BL research much more nervous.  
      - mostly want to try to shape curricula team so learning teams wants to focus on BL.
    - Noah issue
    - Not wanting PM to force technical decisions
      - I agree with that concern as well. 
      - Except those decisions that affect the generality/capabilities of the system.
        --but I want discussion on what those should be--


    Up close 
    - Spec in PAD is intentionally loose, to give us as much room to shift---but that is 
      with the assumption that I will be in the thick of the technical decisions made.
      (One case by case basis
    - Desire less defined more emergent, but then I need to be knee deep in technical choices being made
    - I also want to think at the technical level about solving this
      - single vision of BL goal--want to stay in sync 
      - spent 15 years thinking about bootstrapping, and will enjoy being part of the technical decisions case
    - Shape program to fit resarch goals.
    - Lower risk to program.  small delta in understanding of impt issues, what we are doing & why
