# Trips.Journal.2007\_06\_18d --

    (11/25) Get plane tix

    R15 noon->fla
    R15 xmas party
    F16 johnny party
    S17 cruise
    24  noon->home

    ----
    IMPT:  Bring passport, drivers licence, and birth certificate


    -  800 323-7448        monica

    Hello All!
     
    The link below will get you into your reservation with Princess.
    There you can complete your "passenger immigration information" and view/book shore excursions.  It is very important that you complete your immigration information and if you are able to do it online, it would help me out a great deal.  Otherwise you can call me with the information and I will do it for you.
    <<>>
    Daniel Oblinger MQ3NCQ
     
    In order to access the site you will need to put in your name and reservation number as follows:
     
    John and Monica Brown - Booking #MQ3Q6K (Dolphin deck, Cabin 231)
    Jason and Leila Schmick - Booking #MQ3QGW (Emerald deck, Cabin 307)
     
    Carolyn and Daniel Oblinger - Booking #MQ3QHX  (Emerald deck, Cabin 319)
    Daniel Oblinger - Booking #MQ3NCQ (Baja deck, Cabin 425)
    David and Elsa Oblinger - Booking #MQ9JHJ (Baja deck, Cabin 403)
     
    William and Bernadine Brown - Booking #MQ3Q9R (Aloha deck, Cabin 333)
    Ashley Brown and Scott Cramer - Booking #GR4HGM (Baja deck, Cabin 208)
    Adam Brown and Rachael Boone - Booking 3GR6W7L (Caribe deck, Cabin 105)
     
    Kathleen Hall and Lisa Parnell - Booking #MQ3QGV (Emerald deck, Cabin 514)
    Ronald and Suzanne Hall - Booking #MQ3QVN  (Aloha deck, Cabin 341)
     
    Linda and Jeffrey Litzler - Booking #MQ3QHR (Emerald deck, Cabin 515)
     
    I will be sending a package of information out to you in the near future as final payment is coming up October 1st.  Hope all is well with you.  FYI, John played golf this past weekend, exactly two weeks after his big H.  He's doing great!!! (Thank God!)
    Love you all! xoxo
    Monica
    P.S. Carolyn or David, can you forward this email to Danny as I do not have his new address or email.  Thanks.
     
     
    Monica S. Brown
    V.I.P. World Travel
    4971 Ringwood Meadow
    Sarasota, FL  34235 USA
    Phone:  941-377-0017
    Toll Free:  1-800-323-7448
    Web:  www.vipworldtravel.com
    Email:  monica@vipworldtravel.com



    Hi Danny,
     
    You can add someone up to December 1st. Penalties for cancellation begin Oct 2nd.   Remember, the rate per person changes if someone rooms with you. 
    ($499 for you and $599 for a friend).  Any number of things can happen in the next nine months.  Maybe Ashley will decide to go, or Leila might go 
    by herself depending on Jason's orders.  Who knows.  I am holding something for you which is the main thing.  We can always add to, make changes 
    or cancel down the road.
     
    Hope all is well with you.  I heard it's a bit balmy today in NYC. 62'.
    See ya soon, Love
    Monica
