# Life.2004\_0420 --


    HEADLINE -- 
    1) Social brainiac seeks same.
       social smartie seek same
    2) High Energy, IQ, and EQ seeks same.


    INTRO
    Intellectually oriented, socially sophisticated, energetic, yet optimistic, spiritually grounded, and emotionally mature.  Urban interests with rural values.  My soul mate and I see this world as an explosion of win/win, experience expanding, possibilities that enrich us and the world we live in.  Our only frustration is the inherent limit that 24 hours places on our days.  Our relationship provides the secure basis for a lifelong outward-facing exploration of this amazing world.  Implicit trust admits significant independence, yet common intellectual and social interests provides us with continual nourishment from explorations of the other.

    HOW ABOUT YOU?  Is this how you see your life partner?  Do you have strong intellectual interests: into new ideas/cultures?  Energetic: up for last minute, late nite, clubbing, or hosting a dinner feast for our friends?  Your friends look to you for social possibilities?  You're attractive and fit?  Your natural inclination is to give back to a world that has given you so much?  If so, read on, perhaps we are a match!

    ADJECTIVES THAT DESCRIBE ME: I am 5'10", 165lbs physically fit, and clean cut. Energetic/Optimistic -- The first to go out and the last to leave. Thinking -- passionate about learning; always up for a good debate. Trusting/Spiritual -- The one people tell those secrets they have "never told anyone before."  Ambitious -- Just a bit.  My travel through this world should have some positive impact on it. During the 9 to 5 I am an inventor for IBM; I also teach courses at Columbia University. 
    HONESTY IN ADVERTISING.  By activity, demeanor, and looks you will guess my age near 30, yet through twist of fate and persistence of my thesis advisor I am 38.  Here I split the difference at 34, so you can have a peek at my profile and (very current) photo before making your choice.

    If the sketchings above resonate with the canvas of your imagination drop me a note; let's roll the dice of life.






    FUN:
    Loving New York. I am still new enough to be excited about all there is to see and do: Foreign films, ethnic food, rollerblading, occasional clubbing, and dinner parties, are all regulars on the menu.


    LOCAL AND TRAVEL:
    Coffee shops w. atmosphere: Rita's, Edgar's, DTUT, Coffee Pot. Love the ethnic restaurants on 9av in hell's kitchen; love the Korean shops on 32st, and Dim sum at Pings Seafood.

    FAVORITES:
    Discussing our last movie for an hour. Organizing a group for Sunday dim sum. Learning/doing something new.  I tend to eschew the usual and aim for the other.  New cultures, ideas, and activities, are the bread a butter of a rich and meaningful life.

    READING:
    The Elephant Vanishes -- short stories by Haruki Murakami. I loved it--even convinced a friend to read it 
    just so I would have someone to discuss the stories with
