
# W46   2023-11-13   [[2023-W45|<<]] [[2023-W47|>>]]
- [ ] 

### Mon-13
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
- [ ] Ready for [[Mgt]] 
### Tue-14
- [ ] 
### Wed-15
- [ ] 
### Thu-16
- [ ] 
### Fri-17
- [ ] 


ON HUMAN ANNOTATION

Miguel is competent and experienced, and I have my hands very full w/ both the SW team, with the CV team, and zero love for standing up new human annotation teams.  These are all great reasons for me butt out and leave this issue to the experts.

But as an inner circle guy its my job to roll up my sleeves anytime anywhere I see that things are not going to converge in a good way on a key issue for the company.  And that is what I see here:


ON IMPORTANCE -- Even when full-AI works, we agree sticky customers will be consumers we have a direct relationship with.  For (1) customer success, (2) logistics and ops, and (3) human annotation this will require a large human workforce THAT SCALES WITH OUR BUSINESS.  Thus achieving optimality in this area is key to our long term success.


ON TIMING -- This company has been a day late and a dollar short since it was created.   EVENTUALLY we got good bug tracking, eventually was got good hires, eventually we are getting good QA, eventaully we are doing some amount of product design.  (I could keep going here!). All of it was later than we expected.  Thus I am not excited to delay experiments in an area that we just acknowledged is central to our company.  We should not assume a direct workforce will work, maybe it wont.  But we should assume it will take longer than we expect... even when we try to plan for that.  So as long as we don't spend large time or large money, we should do it AS SOON as possible.  just being sure we don't ramp anything that will cause significant ongoing burn.  But my take home message is that it will take longer than it should.  (it always does!)


ON THE DETAILS









(1) ON TIMING -- Since its inception



Making this practical will be a crazy tall order. If I get more than one person to actually read my story, I will try to write up a second story about the logistics of making it work. I certainly don't claim I have solved it all, but let me address your concerns a little bit here:

(1) ISOLATION -- Agreed, this enclave must be physically isolated.  But with strong border checks, there would be no issues having folks leave to visit the rest of Gaza.  And if sponsored by a receiving family one could visit from the outside too.  Transit of goods would be as restricted we currently have between nations. Think of joining the enclave as emigrating to another country, one with greater freedoms, greater jobs, and greater hope for the future.  Like-minded folks with little hope for present day Gaza would come.  Later if the community blossomed, many might hope to come.

(2) LAND -- Agreed, getting the land for this enclave will be difficult.  But there are a number of tricks we can use to ease this burden:
- Small millions could be used to build high density housing so the initial enclave could be housed with quite a high person per square-foot density, so simply buying the land will work.
- Building near Egypt and Israel will allow certain members of this community to have travel privileges to each country.  (Israel will be harder as some could emigrate with terrorist intent, still over years some could gain this access I think, and I expect that MANY could get travel access as non-citizens into Egypt, and even hold jobs there.)
- A border area around the enclave is marked such that only those willing to sign agreement to join the enclave can buy land there.  Indeed buying such land is a good way to join the enclave, so the price of this land could rise.
- When the density of citizens in an adjoining area that are ok joining the enclave reaches 80% or so, then the enclave can expand into that area.  A kind of eminent domain is use to pay anyone who owned their land PRIOR to the creation of this enclave for their land if the do not want to join.  Their land is purchased at 50% above what comparable land elsewhere in Gaza will sell for.
- As you can see, in the early years, the enclave cannot focus on farming as it will not have the land for it.  Still an economically smart move is to sign the agreement to join the enclave, and then buy a huge tract of land just outside the enclave.  That land will be worth much more once inside the enclave.

(3) TERRORISTS -- Agreed, the very existence of such an experiment will be a threat to Iran and Hamas.  It will show in clear economic terms what great benefits a Palestinian could have if they were not at odds with Egypt and Israel, thus it would not be enough for folks joining the enclave to be neutral.  They would need to be proactively ensuring terrorism could not gain a foot hold, and would need to be willing to self police in ways that would be bothersome and more invasive than what is done in other places.  Still, it seems it would be a trade worth making for many today in Gaza without hope.  AND it seems oh so much more tolerable if one is making and prosecuting those verification policies on ones self.  The objective is measurable and clear:  and enclave that is SQEAKY CLEAN.  I would want measurable verification procedures with clear and dramatic escalation processes anytime infractions are found.  This will incentives all involved to look for ways to improve security organically and on their own, however they achieve this goal is up to them.  (This is also why the enclave must be grown slowly so an entirely new culture is grown and refined over time.)

(4) JOBS AND MONEY -- All of this can only work if there are jobs and prosperity in the enclave.  And this can only happen if the nations of the world support it.  Still today Palestinians live in very poor conditions, it would not take a lot of money to build better housing and infrastructure.  More important would be access to jobs.  But it is in Egypt's, Israel's, Europe's and USA's interest to have a path forward, so allowing access to jobs, especially for skilled, and blue collar labor seems doable.  I imagine subsidies for a few facilities built near the border (inside Egypt, Israel, or Gaza).  This would not change any national border, but would rather be a special working zone (just as we see at the border of North Korea and South Korea).  An isolated region perhaps with a footprint in all three nations that is a work zone.  What makes this more doable is that no nation will loose even one square foot of its sovereignty, and because it is isolated, it will not pose a security threat.


This idea is not without its drawbacks.  It would be a brain drain for Palestine, the enclave would be most interested in accepting those most qualified for skilled labor, and those most qualified would be most interested in getting out.  Still having those brains waste away inside Gaza is hardly better, and my hope is that with prosperity just on the other side of the wall, many would clamor to get there.  This alone would be a strong driver for its growth, and for those inside of it, to be strongly motivated to keep it free from any who would want to bring violence towards Israel.

Thoughts?