https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YgIdpfU580Nt9-tl7KxNY5G5XbminRB1/view?usp=sharing


# W40   2023-10-02   [[2023-W39|<<]] [[2023-W41|>>]]
- [ ] 

#### Mon-2
- [ ] 
#### Tue-3
- [ ] 
#### Wed-4
- [ ] 
#### Thu-5
- [ ] 
#### Fri-6
- [ ] CV test ready
- [ ] Executive Summary
- [ ] Testing
- [ ] cmd line


I do understand the financial consequences associated getting Halos working so the CV team need to be laser focused on pushing that forward as fast as possible.  
Luciano is denying it all.  We are not comfortable simply rejecting him w/o getting some triangulating information, I am looking into this as well.  And I am also considering revisiting the critera we will be looking for in this role assuming that Luciano is indeed rejected.


Jason and Sam:

I am very happy we have a crisp target for our A-round financing, in provides a concrete set of objectives that we can plan against, and transition from reactive to more proactive planning.  I do not have a good understanding of our pathway towards $2M in ARR, so for the moment I will leave that for your planning.  (Not trying to dodge that bullet, I really just don't understand our plans well enough to help.)  For all other areas I feel we are starting to get a handle on them.  Here is a shoot from the hip assessment of our most critical needs in this moment:

- **RED - Ingestion.**  We have made zero progress in this critical area in the last 6 weeks or more, we know this will take many weeks to get operational we should NOT be waiting for Miguel's team to get ready.  Not as we burn 200K per month!
  ==> Recommendation:  If Sam has at least 25% time intern availability transitioning up to 50% time for a few months, I will start there, else I can get ~$10/hr work from outside this week.

- **RED/YELLOW - Testing.**  We only had **TWO** games recorded last week.  This means only two opportunities to uncover bugs that users find in our hoops app.  I listed this as only RED/YELLOW since Jack/James are presently enough bugs to keep the devs busy, but this is not sustainable, nor an ideal usage of these precious resources.
==> Recommendation: push hard to get to 10 B2C games per moving thru the system.  We can pay people if we need to, but I think with encouragement and free games or such we need not do that.

- **YELLOW - QA** - Right now we are having 25% Regressions.  This is far from ideal, but even if we caught 100% of the bugs we would still have more bugs than we can fix this week, so for the short run it makes little difference.  I am hopeful that we are imminently going to improve that team too.  (but it make cost us $1.5K/mo for a senior QA)
==> Recommendation: Hire two QA.  (maybe one that is a senior QA in our pipe, but I am not sure since that costs us!)

- RED - HOOPS APP - It is concerning that we continue to find bugs in the hoops app.  I will write a full report on hoops stability separately, for here I just notice our situation, and levers that we could pull to improve the situation.
==> Recommendation:  Use Jack & James to keep 100% dev focus on high priority bugs.  (Do NOT divert resource to features or automated testing)
==> LEVER:  We could hire an outside firm of more senior flutter devs to support the effort.  I estimate 2weeks of ramp up time and $8K/mo dev cost, or approx $20-30K as a minimum for this action.
==> LEVER:  We could hire an additional senior flutter dev to add to our team for short term bug fixing and longer term front end velocity.
==> Recommendation:  I am trying to work with Mark and Jack to get a very rough guide for 

- YELLOW/GREEN - AI - I am happy that we now have three targets that *ALL* feel good as FULL-AI possibilities.  I really like Jason's small shots, large cannon ball analogy, and I think we are following that path well in the AI team.  We don't know which shot will land, but we now have three that all feel very plausible to me.  (I will not be surprised if Basketball is NOT the first paying FULL-AI customer, and I think that is fine.)
==> Recommendation:  Continue current path.  Keep hiring to only one CV person (even though I suspect we have TWO very solid candidates)
==> Recommendation:  Validate both baseball/volleyball at a technical level AND from a sales ramp-up perspective, then act once clarity is found.


- 
- 
- we it is not slowing us down too much, it just means that the app 
- 
- 
- 
- I think Jack correctly identified this as a gap that can sink the B2C aspect of our business, and I agree with Sam that long term such a B2C connection to customers will be the sustainable differentiation.


