# 2023-W20. May 15th 
- [ ] [[Bridge]]:  1st Rack & stack done.  Initial calls done
- [ ] [[Reset]]: Report To Discussions.  (tell circle)
- [ ] [[CVP]]: 





### MON
- [ ] Report To Discussions.  (tell circle)
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 


### TUE
- [ ] Org team call
- [ ] Chew
- [ ] [[Repeat]]:


### WED
- [ ] Plan for Bridge







He seemed most excited when if SV would grow there would be some new and different effort he could perhaps become part of 



Trying to understand his motivations I asked, well what if we don't make the change in leadership?  And he said, no I think change is good.  I asked is he REALLY having fun now.  He insisted 'yes'.  Then I said ok so one year from now what is your guess?  Assuming that you are still running this group pretty much as you are now, and still having fun as you are now.  will you be here?  He said, "well if nothing changes, probably not."

I dug around this answer as best I could.  He seemed to retreat back from that answer too.  I argued , when I argued 





I asked well what if we don't make the change in leadership




He said he is having fun in the job.  But he also made it clear that he is "already retired" and talked a lot about the virtues of having new leadership for the group.  I told him that since SV is an AI company we should really have multiple leaders in the area, and I thought he was of great value running that group.  Seemed like was getting a little bored with the role 

We talked about his vesting and what we what we would do it he didn'
We end up talking about whether there might be some OTHER new group that he would 

Even when I said, well 



I want to use this shift to allow time to fo

Since then I have already felt 



to tell them.  It gave us a chance to immediately talkj

jabthat I was the one to break this news as it allowed us to talklklklklk