
Unit tests are missing



My notes:  

- another case with OCR #1 issue
- shot origin attributed to a blocking player
- detector generating noticeable amount of false positive during panning motion
- we mix identification of 2 white teams visible in video (white with grey jersey numbers and white with red numbers -- second team show up just for a moment at the end)


---MISLEADING---:
We should not think of feature cycle time as a measure of team velocity.  Rather it is features/tickets per dev per week that should be our primary measure of velocity.  I would gladly swap a 2 month cycle time for doubling the tickets/dev/week score.

Indeed dev teams operate at peak efficiency when most tickets are known and fully specified a sprint BEFORE the current sprint.  I know this is not always possible, but if it WERE possible to know and specify those a ticket a sprint before the current sprint and we are NOT getting those specs approved earlier, then we are forcing our dev team to operate with a PERMANENT handicap.  They are always shooting from the hip, never knowing how what they are doing right now is going to interact with what they are doing next week.  Very bad.  We need to get our planning processes into better shape.

When we are running an A+ shop, the ONLY time we will be working on a feature that was not fully spec-ed out at least one sprint ahead is when the universe gave us new information that we could not possibly have predicted.  We are no where close to this level, but I do see real hopeful signs that our planning in moving in this direction, so the number of time we are trying to inject a fast moving feature into our flow is more then exception than the rule.

---INACCURATE---:
More important I think we have not conveyed the true constraints of the new push to production.  

Total time increased by a week, real change is alignment to week boundaries.  
It actually does not reduce the time from last feature until production out by very much.  It was a week, now it is two weeks from Tuesday morning when QA is frozen for testing, until the second Tuesday when that frozen image is pushed to production.

In my experience, having known days of the week for each activity will SPEED UP our actual process, since Maximo and internal testers know which hour on which day they are scheduled to do their work, we have actually shortened those parts of the timeline because we can count on their aggressive action in those moments.

But there is a downside to this new method:  In the past you could begin a new push to production any day of the week, but now you might have to wait a couple of business days, since pushes ALWAYS begin on Tuesday when QA is frozen.  So what this means is when you have fast moving features you will need to focus the team in days before Tuesday, so you can get them into that weeks push.

One week push.
The schedule as it is designed already has a trivial method to reduce that two week QA-to-PROD to one week.  Right now we get two weekends of beta testing, we can easily drop down to one weekend of beta testing, then QA-to-PROD is only ONE WEEK!
- What Brian and I spoke about is starting out with two weekends of beta testing, but then if we can ramp up the amount of beta testing, AND we are happy that we are not getting too many regression bugs, we could drop back to only one weekend of beta test, and also one week sprints.
- That might sound like a good thing and give the illusion of moving faster.  but one week sprints will mean that we are DOUBLING the overhead of sprint planning, QA testing, etc. on our dev team.  Thus our feature per week per dev will definitely be LOWER.  So I like to keep that option in my back pocket if I feel the team is crushing all those over head things easily then I might want to give us the added flexibility of one-week sprints.  BUT in my experience this is hard for most teams to do with peak efficiency... but it is an option.

Better fast injection.
While I don't favor one week sprints yet (or ever?)  I *AM* very focused on improving our fast feature injection process.  Hot fixing is disruptive, but right now we have so many bugs to be fixed, I have spoken with Brian specifically about the need for us to be dynamically replanning sprints DURING the sprint so that we can instantly respond when a bug becomes actionable that we fold it into the sprint.  Using this same method you will be able to inject features into the sprint in the last days before QA freeze so that you can get your features out in 2 weeks.  I think if the features are trivial "change the color of this button" things this will not harm Brian's team.  But do know if we do this with bigger features it will reduce efficiency, so we should only do it when its really needed.


I am hopeful these tweaks will make the two week QA-to-PROD delay an acceptable one.  Please let Brian & I know if we should schedule a meeting to talk abut and/or rethink all of this.  It is critical we get it right, so I am definitely not try to put you off in your concerns!










