
# W44   2023-10-30   [[2023-W43|<<]] [[2023-W45|>>]]

- [ ] [[2023 Least Commitment Model For CV Pipe]]: run-api & reporting
- [ ] ML-flow video
- [ ] run sarthi scripts
- [ ] Slicer 
- [ ] [[Presentations]] ML Velocity

Run Code; Vishal


### Mon-30
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
### Tue-31
- [ ] 
### Wed-1
- [ ] 
### Thu-2
- [ ] 
### Fri-3
- [ ] 


- best boost:
	- few percents from UI on portal
	- per-game ops improvemnents
	- INTERNAL ANN TEAM
	- 
- Dubious of halos  
	- Are they valuable if lower accuracy?  
- Minutes 


It seems there will be some complex back and forth between this module and the ball possession module.  After all I think if the possessor keeps moving with the ball, then we don't want to call a motion a pass.  So this module will want to have the output of the ball possession messages right?

Then I am less clear, will the ball possession system also want to know that a pass just ended (and perhaps who the recipient was in order consider that new possession is beginning?

Also I notice that your logic is watching multiple frames to see if the ball is staying with a person to determine the correct recipient.  this seems like we are re-inventing another version of ball possession inside the pass detector.

I wonder if we can express these two modules a separate concerns:
- one module that only reports the beginning and endings of passes (as pixel locations and frame numbers)
- then another module that reports ball possessions (with knowledge about when passes occurred)

This splitting seems clean, but there will be back and forth messages forward and backwards in time...    if that is too much complexity for message triggering, we could also have the logic of both sub modules within a single larger module.

not sure how to handle it, but it does not seem ideal to partially handle ball possession inside the passing module???

Perhaps you want to talk about this with the group? but sadly I wont be in the meeting tomorrow so it would be without me... or with me on monday or after 9am





I wonder if it is a cleaner division of our logic for this module to simply record the frame numbers and beginnings / ends of pass movements.

 it is possible we would do some special kind of possession check (especially upon receipt of the ball) that would be different than normal ball possession checking.  But I just notice that you seem to be doing very similar kinds of analysis here.  (and I wonder if you could / should share code with that module if you keep the logic in your module?   Not sure about any of this.  Just thinking out loud.