# 2023-W18  May, 1st
- [ ] Investors requests out
- [ ] Demo plan


re
### Mon
- [ ] [[Repeat]]
- [ ] Build new laptop
- [ ] Letter for both MikeW and JoeA
- [ ] Talk w/ Nick Allen




... earlier 30+ messages about the team's failings and about this export bug and other buts.



DAN: 
ok.  but it is good for me to know if this is this will slow our total delivery once the bug it fixed,   (e.g. are all games being anotated tonight going to be ok?)

I am basing my thinking on the idea that we will "catch up" when this bug is fixed w/o any loss of games.  I hope this is correct.  is it?


MARK:   
Fix the export, add player mins to our database via air table, and re export when our software works.  (edited) 

No.  (it's not correct)

DAN:
why are no games being annotated?

MARK:
All work is stopped for now


DAN:
Why?
I understand no games can be returned

the annotations can go in properly correct?

MARK:
Everyone was on returning results.

DAN:
why don't we switch to annotating?!?

MARK:
We are behind by 300 games on our newest commitment

No all of them are whipped and tired.


DAN:
yes but if we catch up with 700 games that would.

Fixing this bug does not make them less tired

MARK: 
20 hours straight. And player mins out of our tool just makes more work.

DAN:
why are we not doing stats w/o minutes now... then add minutes later?

MARK:
It is very disappointing and discouraging to our team

They have NO confidence in our software

They started to look at 3rd party software to do the work.

DAN:
ok fine.   I need to know how to react here.  We are not going to fix this bug on a dime, but we do need to have work happening.

MARK:
I have a big morale problem with 100 team members

It should be an easy fix. The data is in the system


DAN:
call me

MARK:
Ok after dinner. Out with family

For the 1st in many weeks

DAN:
k

