# 2023-W19. May 8th 


### THR
- [ ] [[Repeat]]
- [ ] AI plans
- [ ] XXX 



- [ ] Discontinuity.

- [ ] Use Player tracking, player highlight, 



CEREBRO ROLLUP
Cudos to Mark & Isaac for delivering enough quality that Cerebro is asking for more.
Cudos to Mark & Jack for sweating the details try to spec out the work to be done.

The reality is it is a COLOSSAL amount of work to even do the first round of optimizations, and as mightily as they have struggled I think we still have a ways to go before we have a strong 'spec' for all the work needed to fully execute annotations entirely within our tool, and even longer before that work is Completed.  We have yet to build time estimates for this work, but it looked like many sprints to me.  Jack provided a helpful breakdown of the current labor in annotating a game (from memory):
4 hours - Annotations
2 hours - Game minutes - He though we could shave 1 hour
1 hours - Game QA

Our plan is to get unnormalized minutes done in our tool as a first step, I am hopeful that we are close to a full spec of just this first part, so Brian can coordinate a fast delivery of that piece.  Then we can create end2end specs for our delivery of the automation of each subsequent part of this flow.  If we structure things in this way we will end up with 4 or so chucks of deliverables.  And we should expect this is just the first in a series of optimizations of this annotation flow.  So really this is a stream of work that is just getting started!

I only bring this explicitly into focus because it is a shift in understanding for me.
I though we were "farming out" annotations so we could focus on being mostly an AI-stats company.  Walking thru the many details here, it is clear, even when we "farm out" the labor involved in actually doing the annotations, we are still "in housing" the development of a non-trivial annotation work flow in our dev team.  This is a large effort that we are only at the beginning of.  Not saying we don't do it.  I am just calling it what it is!

Before Jack disappears on his well deserved vacation, it will be critical that we fully spec out and approve the stage one of this plan... the delivery of unnormalized minutes using our system.  Hopefully he can partially spec out the next chuck after that too.


~~

@Jack Ryan Potvin @Mark Lichty even though our system was broken with this same bug for the last two weeks, the team was limping along until this point.  I do understand the bug is in the code, but I am unclear what has changed this weekend (other than we now know the bug is there).  Why was the system ok on Friday, but is not usable now?  

Is it just that the cost of doing QA is too large given that some games are get mixed up colors?  Can we estimate the cost for this additional QA work?

In any case, what we know with certainty is that we are not going to have a bug free system this weekend, even if all of our devs start working without sleep right now.  that cannot happen.


~~

Fixing multiple bugs in both the front and back end on a dime is not likely.  This is how it goes:  You find a bug, you document it, you diagnose it, you fix it, your test the fix, you hot fix the fix into production, then you test production.  This will always take  time, especially with multiple bugs.

"Burning" our trained annotators, by asking them to work and have them throw in the towel because our per-game price is just not high enough to deal with our system does not seem ideal.  I can only see two options:

"Burning" our devs to work on Sunday to shave a day off of our delivery schedule might be the right move.  We only get to shoot that bullet so many times, so I want to hear Sam or Jason tell me to do before I would do that in this case.  

But either way we are going to have down time.  So what do we do?

(1) We shut down annotations until we get enough bugs out that we can resume, hopefully after not too many days.

(2) We provide some kind of 'hazard pay' per-game price boost for the annotators for a limited number of games.  We might do this if we are trying to hit some politically important milestone for Cerebro.

(3) We might recognize that our app is just buggier than we thought and provide a higher per-game price for some period of time while "unacceptable" bugs are in our system.  (where WE get to decided on a case by case basis if a bug is unacceptable or not.)

I cannot think of another path.

Generally I favor path #1, but I am assuming that if we had these few bugs fixed then the annotators would be happy to do the annotation work.  If that assumption is wrong, then we may need to revisit.

@Jason @sam I stand ready to hop on a call if that is valuable.  Otherwise please provide guidance here.  If we don't react, then path #1 is what is going to happen tonight at least.





, I expect by default my favored path is the one that will 










