

# W38   2023-09-18   [[2023-W37|<<]] [[2023-W39|>>]]
- [ ] hiring
- [ ] Ready for mgt meeting

### Mon-18
- [ ] [[Repeat]]: 
- [ ] [[Mgt]]:	All topics ready.  materials.
- [ ] 
### Tue-19
- [ ] 
### Wed-20
- [ ] 
### Thu-21
- [ ] 
### Fri-22
- [ ] 

1,000 teams $250

- Men's leagues (problem if they don't own gym)
- Gym owners
- AAU Market
	- **AAU Passionate parents**
	- get into the gyms???  
	- if others are there then we need to get in
	- Use Vaio

- HS Coaches


Scott:

No Russian suffering just as with Ukrainian suffering is a tragedy, that is not something anyone should wish for.

And you wish for the end of this war to achieve this goal.  I wish wars such as this are not started in the first place as a means to achieve this goal.  I am not trying to hold the west as completely blameless in the lead up to all of this.

But please listen to the words of Putin and conservatives in power there.  They **DEFINITELY** do see Russia as a great power, and this is its manifest destiny.  These are not just words, they MEAN it.  But the only way that Russia could ever BE this world power in the 21st century is if it once again holds ultimate military control over a huge eastern block of countries.  THIS IS THE ONLY WAY.  So if they can maintain/increase their power over the countries in this region they will do it, even at great loss of life.  

Increasing their suffering will not stop them (and is a tragedy too).  But but reducing their POWER will stop them.  Remember the primary goal (on both sides) is primarily about power.

A ceasefire in the Donbas that normalizes the newly advanced borders leaves Russia able to solidify their control, then repeat this process a third time in a few years hence.

The only thing that would stop this would be


help.  Remember the primary goal 



