

- **2024-01-24 - Email From Justin [Realplay.us](http://Realplay.us). (Regarding the product)**
    
    Hey Jason – looking forward to our meeting, and I hope you receive what I write below as a measure of how serious I am about this conversation, with both feet planted firmly in reality. I think for this next call, let’s stick to me and you only and expand next week depending on how we go.
    
    My plan is to talk with you about how we can work together and help both of our companies grow our revenue streams and gain advantageous position come the end of the year as we both have a goal of pursuing a series A. I have several ideas of how we can do this and would like to be detailed and structured in our approach of the options so that we can be definitive in what is and is not possible.
    
    The foundation of my thinking is based on the following perspective:
    
    1. You have done an exemplary job of creating a product, finding some initial traction, building a viable tech team and raising the funds to support the type of team you need to build AI tools.
    2. I have done the job of building out an early stage product with sophisticated go-to-market tools, customer experience, built a growing business pipeline, and created a massive cache of annotated data.
    3. We share a very similar view of how ai enabled video will turn one, if not several, tech companies into $100m+ revenue generating firms within the next 3 years.
    4. What I have observed on your end is frustration with how to grow and gain the type of traction that can get you to the millions in revenue that would justify the ambitious valuation you’d like to see earned as part of the series A.
    5. What I assume you have observed on my end is frustration in being at the precipice of winning a significant market share in the space but incapable of making a full force assault due to my limitations in gaining investor funding holding back our product development and expansion opportunities.
    6. Both of us are operating as pretty much solo founders who share an entrepreneurial ideology and are doing the work of carrying each of our companies fueled by our ambition, passion, understanding of the opportunity space, and true grind-it-out grittiness that is not common.
    
    And here’s the truth that underlies it all; and forgive my bluntness. You have everything I need from a fundraising and tech side to become the type of tech company that gets to the 9 figure exit arena – and I cannot access it. I have everything you would need not only to get to your revenue goals in baseball/softball and additionally, my board and network is chalk full of connections to businesses large and small, professional and amateur, that are dying for a multi-sport ai solution, and all I need to do is pick up the phone and we can get the deals lined up in ways that no new CRO can manifest within 6 months. We are both being held back by not having what the other possesses. And if the goal is to compete with Pixxelot, Hudl, TeamGenius…we can’t be spending much more time here in early stage bootstrap land with half manual processes and sub 5m ARR any longer.
    
    So here are set of not unique options that I want to propose to you and get your feedback as I see them as ways to get us to the point where we are so attractive we will be able to set our own series A terms. These are options not mutually exclusive, or inflexible, or the full list of what we could explore, nevertheless, they represent a starting point that we need to be at together in order to move forward
    
    The options are:
    
    1. The simple straight forward expansion of what we’ve been discussing: You and I work out a way so that we can use your ai tools to help our editing process that allows both companies to generate record revenue by bringing in streams/video from outside sources and our own through our software and onto our platform for end user consumption.
    2. A different approach to solving a similar problem to above with more specificity: As one facet of working together – we provide you with our cache of video that can be used to train an algorithm that your team creates – who owns this, who can license it, who/how someone will get paid for it, is determined by the future structure of the relationship,
    3. The option where we combine efforts to both fund what both of us need: We approach sapphire/FSG or some of the boston based early stage vc funds and angel groups with an option of funding a joint venture between our companies that allows you the runway necessary to bring on a baseball/softball as your next sport and take advantage of the revenue generation that can come from the customer demand we have built up and are clamoring for a product similar to what we’ve already been discussing.
    4. The overhauling comprehensive leap of faith option: We join forces and find a way to merge and then co-found RealViseo or [SportsPlay.ai](http://SportsPlay.ai) – this will allow you to focus on the tech and product development, financing and strategic strengths where I can bring my sales, marketing, operations skillset to the table, we bring both sets of teams together to compliment growth, and go out for a bigger round at a significant valuation without you needing to go from 50k-1.5m in 12 months or me needing to fundraise enough to build my own ai dev team. With the revenue generated in ‘24, and tech team in place, we can actually go raise the 10-15m in funding in 2025 that we both know is out there for the company that can check all the boxes.
    
    This is a lot to consider and I can only assume that you’ve had similar thoughts throughout the course of our knowing each other. I will be coming into the meeting knowing that you are skeptical of the diamond sport space, and I expect you to come in knowing that I have already walked down the paths to explosive revenue growth that you are now exploring, and know how to avoid the traps and snares. You are an exited founder bringing invaluable financial and technical experience and trust to the table, I have lived in the sports world for my whole life and in this role gained credibility and earned a reputation of delivering on promises and backing our claims with results. Together we could be team that this space hasn’t even come close to experiencing, and with the funding, knowhow, tech, and connections at our disposal, we could build most successful amateur sports technology company ever.
    
    Let me know what you need me to bring to the meeting so that we can actually have this conversation effectively?
    
    Thanks again, looking forward to exploring this with you,
    
    Justin


- terrible vantage, terrible lighting, terrible weather
- different backgrounds


Sam:

My sense is that with limited guidance our team filled values into our matrix, but not really with actionable/accurate info.  I suspect we will involve them to track details in this process, or perhaps to even keep tempo in or data collecting, but I think not with direct ownership.  Not criticizing their attempt, I think they just don’t have proper context to really perform this.  I think yes or no decisions on each of these will fall down to very specific and different details in each case.  I think we should loop them in as specific sub-tasks get identified.

  

Jason, Sean, Alan, and Jack:

As you know, we are looking for a low-risk AI product to add as a paid to our lineup.  Below I list our current shortlist; at first glance, depending on details we don't yet know the first 4 of the 5 options below could have paths that are low risk to attempt a paid product in 2024.  But most of the paths will take us away from our longer term mission of delivering full game stats in multiple sports, thus we only want to attack one of these if solving them by Q3 will really move the needle in our fundraising.  And I think this probably comes down to sales traction.  Jason correct me if I am wrong in this, but it seems if we can show increasing sales traction on a paid product for a market that is not microscopic, then it will add large value for the A-round and we should do it.  

Thus our initial choice between the first four options below should be guided by our guess about whether we will have sufficient market pull, and guided by our clarification of the details for each.  My 'seat of the pants' guess from the technical side is that the first 4 are doable while "VB stats" is high risk as a paid product in 2024.  Do you guys have a 'seat of the pants' guess about these alternatives?

Here is a link to the 5 alternatives with a short product gloss for each.

For anyone in a position to hazard a guess on some of these alternatives, what does your gut tell you?


