s
# W29   2024-07-15   [[2024-W28|<<]] [[2024-W30|>>]]
- [ ] [NJ Slide](spot://njslide):	
- [ ] [OKRs](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1v7Winy9DHxGuYh05_is8zH05ClJi0qclM698-pDXIgY/edit?pli=1#slide=id.g274b3e27e6b_0_0):		Q3 Planning	

### Mon-15
- [ ] 
### Tue-16
- [ ] 
### Wed-17
- [ ] 
### Thu-18
- [ ] [[Repeat]]
### Fri-19
- [ ] 






AI COMPANY:

There is a lot to like about this company including its month over month growth and its founding team.

But let me start with its biggest challenge.  They even accidentally highlighted it in their deck:   "Our research led us to a startup that pivoted to becoming a direct competitor after talking to us"

This product is more of a feature within a larger suite of analytics or SW mgt framework.

~~

MEDIUM

Well I agree that that many AI companies will fail spectacularly, and many claims are beyond what is true, that claims of imminent transformations of entire industries are way beyond what will happen.

And yet I believe, the current AI shift is still UNDER hyped.  We just don't even see the largest shifts this tech will enable, just was in 1995 we really did not see most of the transformations the internet would bring, in 2008 we did not understand what smart phones would bring.

We UNDER shot our understanding of the transformations they would bring.  I think this one is way way bigger.  Not exactly the tech we have in 2024.  We still cannot fully replace entire job categories with this tech.  but it is close.

all phone reps will be AI.  Tax returns all AI.  Accountants AI.  back office everything, all AI.   Even advanced activities like drug design scientists.   food service, driving, distribution of goods, etc.

Its a decade or more for each of these.  But while I still claim that these shifts take longer than technologists like myself predict, I also see that this revolution will involve 10x more investment capital than the internet or smart phones.  As each of these revolutions get close.  Investors will poor 100B into each one of them just so they can be the Google, Amazon or Uber of that industry.  Collectively we will be spending Trillions across the planet in the largest string of land grabs that humanity has ever seen.  So it will happen FASTER than we have seen in past.

buckle in, its gonna be quite a ride!

(and still you are right, most current corps will die, and over claims abound everywhere, funny to be right and wrong huh?)

And I expect the next revolution beyond LLM s still needed to fully replace human meta reasoning for most of these revolutions to complete.  I just notice that the idea underlying ChatGPT was published in 2017.  And in one single step AI's capacity jumped 100x from what we could do before.  And presently we are spending 10x on AI innovation.  Time is now in fastforward, so the innovation is likely quicker.


~~

Christopher,

Alas I am the Dan Oblinger of lesser-fame than the Hostage Negotiator.  I am a PhD from Illinois, and I do know the frustration of having my field of AI attacked by outsiders w/o full understanding of it.  So forgive any ignorance shown here, it is not intentional.

You provide a compelling vision of objectivity in Ethics, one that I had not thought thru before.  Still it seems that objectivity is not as crisp as it is across most of the sciences.

In the sciences observations must be replicable in order to be accepted, thus there is a very enumerable list of observations that must be accounted for.  These are very crisply expressed in language that brook little disagreement if a given observation is or is not consistent with a give theory.

I am unaware if there are formalized framings of these thought experiments that would allow such unambiguous assessment of their relation to a give ethical model.  Also it seems the space of thought experiments is not enumerated in anything like the space of scientific results are enumerated.  It feels to this outsider that each major ethical model has its bevy of thought experiments that justify that model.  while others have their somewhat disjointed thought experiments.  Tomorrow yet a new theory could be proposed as long as one could frame thought expiements to justify it, then it could join the pantheon of notable ethical theories.  Importantly it would not need to supplant earlier theories in order to do this.

To this outsider it seems different in the sense that in hard sciences, even a SINGLE observation, if reliable enough, is enough to fully debunk a previous theory.  Eventually it leads to the rejection of a present theory in favor of a newer one that accounts for ALL prior observations along with the new discordant observation.  This does not seem the way ethical philosophy proceeds.  Perhaps medical sciences bears some relation?  Because the human body is so complex, and our ability to execute strong experiments is ethically constrained, we often of correlational observations that disagree with a theory, yet we cannot definitively rule it out.  One must find many discrepancies to kill a theory.  Still even there we do have progress where certain mainstream theories are widely a accepted then later universally rejected.  As I understand it ethical philosophy generally does not proceeds in this fashion.

It occurs to me an interesting (massive) agenda might be to model ethical philosophy more directly as an empirical science.  In such a world there would be experimentalists that generally do not focus on theory, but instead look to uncover observations that disagree with existing theory.  When found they simply publish the novel observation--which is accepted as a valid and strong advancement of the field.  I guess this would be a kind of psychologist that formulates thought experiments that they believe human subjects would agree with, but that also disagree the the accepted theories of the day.  They would then empirically validate that indeed human subjects indeed react as imagined. This would result in a growing body of consensus thought experimental observations that nearly all humans agree with.  One  might need to invent a formal language of context in order to pin down the exact meaning of each thought experiment so one could definitively understand what was being agreed to.  And the language for describing the reasons for disagreement likely would be even harder.  It feels such a formalization endeavor would mirror some of the early work done in formal logics.  Not sure if this would be productive, or would mostly fail to capture the essence of each thought experiment and its ethical implications?  In any case, it seem to me interesting but ultimately difficult to model ethical philosophy as an observationally-based empirical science the closely parallels science based...   but maybe it could (productively) be done?

