# W34   2024-08-19   [[2024-W33|<<]] [[2024-W35|>>]]
- [ ] [[2024-05 Sell Acura|Acura]] - price; notary; sent bill; 
- [ ] Rz draft rewrite
- [ ] CRM - 1m

### Mon-19
- [ ] [[repeat]] 
### Tue-20
- [ ] 
### Wed-21
- [ ] 
### Thu-22
- [ ] [[Repeat]]
- [ ] MIT softbank
- [ ] MIT Newsletter
### Fri-23
- [ ] 

AI and Computer Vision
- We have containerized the entire AI-compute stack, this allowed us to realize a xx% cost savings by moving our most expensive compute operations over to lower cost providers.
- Developed our first fully-automated AI-based basketball product add on: per player-player minutes played with plus/minus stats.


Notes:
- We don't really know what our cost savings will be from containerization of the AI stack.  For the moment it lets us move to GCP (which is free for now).  Later it will let us move to dedicated hardware which can potentially be large savings.  In order to provide a percentage now, I computed our current monthly costs for AI servers divided by our totals AWS costs and used this for our savings.
- Sean it is up to you if we include the phrase "with plus-minus stats"  the AI portion provides all info needed for these stats, so it is 'done' in that sense, and that notably increase that amount of info the app provides.  Still at this point, we have not added the SW portions needed to view those stats.  I am not pushing either way here, will let you decide.



SOFTBANK

Sean,
Here are some points I would make to soft bank regarding our products status and road as it relates to their business need.  

Note:  unasked I talked about this idea of them managing the servers that would process their games.  This would be challenging both logistically and also from a SportsVisio security perspective.  Still I added the sentence, since I expect they will view such a pilot as impossible w/o it, so I didn't want them to discount the possibility.  You may choose to just delete this idea.  Please edit as you see fit:













INJECTING QA INTO AT TESTING:
@Jack Ryan Potvin, @Juan Barajas and @Juli: Normally with SW we would involve QA in the process of debugging a new feature.  Perhaps we should be doing the same thing here with AI?  Are we at a point with the system where QA could meaningfully trigger AI minutes and wait for the result, and (OPTIONAL: perhaps even look at logging info).  My thought is that longer term we are going to want to have a process where the dev says it is working and QA is testing it. (not you Jack).

But are we at that point now?  Thoughts? 





SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
@Jack Ryan Potvin, @Brian French, and @channel: We are very busy, still busy often means not doing the critical things that will speed and improve in the long run.  Perhaps this is a task we should take on now, or perhaps not:

We are migrating our system from AWS towards GCP, and at the same we are at least discussing reducing number of active environments like RC1 that we keep as part of our flow.  I wonder if it is worth it to have Scott/Matias sketch on paper a couple of diagrams showing code flow, and another showing compute and storage structure.

I am hesitant to create docs that no one will ever read, and that will become out of data in a week.  Still a couple of overview diagrams might really allow us to all see and gain consensus around the architecture that we want.  Still such diagrams will take some time to create.   @Jack Ryan Potvin / @Brian French do you guys have any opinion about the value of doing this now.  (its mostly because of the shift to GCP that it seems a good time to have any discussions about changes to our structure as we recreate it).

thoughts from all?

(if we decided this was worth doing I would keep it light weight.  Maybe Jasu grabs text and scratch work from Scott and tries to capture it in a couple of figures.  Once Dan/Brian/Scott/Matias felt is was expressed well, we would share with the teams for comment and iteration.)