
gs


    """This class tracks the location of players relative to named hoops over time  
        and determines if a player is stationary when they have observed them Class to track stationarity of players relative to hoops."""

- vis: 
- bugs
- pose stationary
- hoop stationary
- active minutes
- 
# W31   2024-07-29   [[2024-W30|<<]] [[2024-W32|>>]]
- [ ] 

### Mon-29
- [ ] 
### Tue-30
- [ ] 
### Wed-31
- [ ] 
### Thu-1
- [ ] 
### Fri-2
- [ ] 

- DATA
	- MinA20

- Minutes Error Analysis
	- End2End minutes w/ metrics on LT10 and First10

- GCP Job Dispatcher
- Speed and memory improvements

- Possible Optimizations
	- Annealing parameters
	- On court aggregation signal
	- Off court player filtering
	- Semantics Rule Optimization
		- >4 and <6 players
		- Short term continuity
		- Medium term continuity




Shot Charts

- Converting many parts of our system to be two camera compatible
	- Issues with memory
- Getting 






It seems like a good tool for the distracted manager or for a manager that is trying to manage too large of a team.

In both of those cases it seems they would need a tool like this to track to see if large dysfunctions were happening in their team.

  

But in a team that is at all well run the manager would mostly be explaining away the anomalies found rather than learning from them.

  

It can really only capture detail that is encoded into text in Jira tickets and such.  Most of what is happening in the CV team right now if managed directly in the stand ups, the team is so small, and our goals are so interrelated.  On the SW side I think the inputs would have more meaning, since the full time job of Jasu and Jack is very connected to Jira ticketing everything.

  

But I fear most of the things it would find would be the result of someone leaving a ticket active when it was closed, or the scope of a ticket changing, but then no one updated the ticket.  In a perfect world such things would not happen, but I am not convinced focusing the teams on Jira correctness is really a velocity enhancer.  It could help our discipline, but it could hurt our velocity too.  We would have to take care with it if we used it.

  