
# W12   2024-03-18   [[2024-W11|<<]] [[2024-W13|>>]] 
- [ ] 

### Mon-18
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
### Tue-19
- [ ] 
### Wed-20
- [ ] Mgt meeting
- [ ] Abby note
- [ ] Metric Code
### Thu-21
- [ ] 
### Fri-22
- [ ] 


Abby:
Thanks for the book recommend, we have already kindled it!  

We are such believers in the AV approach: stem, projects, "not able YET", inquiry based learning; we expect to be signing up this week!  

But finances is turning out to be more of a stomach ache than first thought:  I work for a startup and recently had a 10% cut on my salary, and with Qingling and my schedules we will probably be pay for 2 hrs of child care which I think will more then $10K extra.  It may be too late to try to get financial assistance, and we might not qualify anyway, but I thought I would ask:

Qingling grosses $200K per year + my $180K.  I am almost 59, so we are closing in on my retirement, and it looks like we wont be able to save while paying full tuition at AV.  Still perhaps we just make too much too get financial assistance?  And are we too late to do anything about it now?


Thanks so much for all your help, sorry to bug you TWICE this week.  And see you later today!

--dan




No matter what we find here, I think we are going to be joining AltaVista.  


- Narrative on our video
	- Summary of impt info 
- what is cool or the point of each one.  
  what are the key parts.
- What do we see coming soon?
	- ROBOTS: ball shooting machine
	- ROLE REPLACEMENT:
	- DEVICE AI
		- intelligent - cameras
		- accuracy 
		- ease of use - 
		- scoreboards
		- Hawkeye -- accurate
- slide 12 - details per quad
- google ping-pong robot (add it)
- add narrative notes
- Playilabs - what do they do

Q1 Sprint Mar25 - Apr5







- 3 days - Maxim
- 3 days - Greg (plus)
- 1-2 day martin
- 2x0.5 x 4 

12 dev days