
**==> Are you and Qingling currently making contributions to your retirement plans. If so, how much and how much are you receiving as a company match?**

None from me.  QL is saving approximately 6% of her income into her 401K. 


**==> What is your monthly principal and interest  payment, interest rate and years remaining on the loan.**

House:
$1,063,159 principle
$4,527 / mo payment
2.625% rate   (yay!)
Remaining term. 27years 6mo (fixed)

Taxes:
$10,200 twice per year



**==> If you decide to send your daughter to a private school – how much will the cost be per year and will this continue K-12?**

(its our son Eli :-) )

Private School will be
- $42K/yr tuition + $5K/yr afterschool+food
- We should probably assume K-12, most people don't switch, but we have considered switching part way too.


**==> Would you like to have savings for private college as well ?**

Yes, we also want to save for college... enough for the 4-year tuition at a good in-state public school.  
Perhaps $60K in today's dollars, though I bet we will want to have a bit more... maybe $100K.  

(FYI, we have $25K saved now).  


**==> You have Qingling’s 401K at 250K with ownership as ‘mixed’. Should only part of this value be included in your retirement plan ?**

- Her 401K has money from before we are married and now money after marriage too.
- My Schwab account has money from before marriage and the sale of my company which was mostly built before marriage.

I think our main focus is understanding if we have enough total for both of our retirements.


**==> We are assuming your 1.6 MM Vanguard account is your 401K or IRA – please confirm.**
- it is a mix of Roth IRA, Regular IRA, and a taxable brokerage account.
- Collectively I am thinking of this as my retirement account.  Though in the past I had drawn on this to pay bills when I was not making enough money while doing startups.  For now the assumption is that I would (mostly) be making enough to not draw on this until retirement.  But startups happen, so modest drawdown is still possible.


**==> Where are your Google / Waymo etc. stocks held ? We are assuming this is separate from your 400K joint account at Schwab.**

- Google in QL's Schwab brokerage
- Waymo and 1-password stock's are held at Shareworks (by Morgan Stanley)








- Sarthi Brainstorming


I find myself coming to a similar conclusion, but via a different path.

I note that citizens often vote in the hopes that others will also vote and as a group, will yield benefit even knowing their vote alone will likely make no difference.  Further they know their choice in voting is not causally related to other's voting.

So why do we do this?  My thought is that we are creatures with evolved instincts and one adaptive instinct for causally interacting social creatures is to cooperate even w/o explicit reward.

In a similar way I expect other intelligence could evolve in a social context and thus have developed similar instincts, and thus behave as you suggest.

This conclusion is similar to yours, but I think the reasoning chain is a bit different:
(1) non-self-benefiting cooperation is evolutionarily preferred for "multi-turn" causally-interacting social agents.
(2) Thus such social agents (even distant alien ones) will evolve such behavior and apply it instinctively.
(3) As a result we (and they) find ourselves/themselves applying such in cooperative behavior in contexts known to ourselves/themselves to be provably a-causal.

Interestingly, I can imagine such agents using your argument as their post-hoc explanation of their own behavior even if the actual reason is rooted in their evolutionary history.

Thoughts on this line of reasoning?





(3) Even once they 

(1) other distant agents may have evolved in social contexts where a-causal cooperation was adaptive, and such habits evolved.
(2) and like us these agents apply these 
and thus e

my REASON why it is happening is different (I think).  It is because cooperation is an adaptive habit that others likely have adopted







Jack is asking a question regarding our AI system.  My sense is the answer is yes, and indeed at 1080p we are going to have trouble keeping our compute costs down, still I want to open this to the whole team.  Are there reasons we would be needing >30fps?  are we going to be in trouble if we dont get it?




email:  dan@sportsvisio.com
phone: +1 415-494-9499
whatsapp: +1 415-494-9499
Skype:  oblio00. (rarely checked)
Emergency:  +1 408-480-0508 (wife Qingling)

Contact Order
- Slack/email preferred defaults
- Text for faster response
- Call for fastest response
- Whatsapp/Skype available for intl
  But not checked regularly

Callable Hours:
8am-10pm PST (11a-1a EST)
Normal Hours:
8am-5:30pm PST. (11a-9pm EST)


- **playing happens on court** - play happens on court, homography is not exact, we will have many sighting of a player that is on court.
  ==> we exclude sightings that are outside or near boundaries of court.  sure we might exclude a few on court sightings, but players will not spend most of their time near edges so we will have many inner court sightings.

- **at most five** - we expect at most 5 players, 
  ==> thus a strong sighting of a 6th player indicates another has left.

- **at least five** - we expect there to be at least five players, 
  ==> thus only seeing 4 indicates one unseen player is still there.

- **little 'short benching'** - it is rare for a player to be swapped OFF the court for a brief period.  if they are swapped out, almost always be out for more than small minutes.  
  ==> Thus if we are positive a player is on court at two times separated by small minutes we expect they were there the whole time.

- **playing is moving** - most players are moving at least briskly most of the time.  
  ==> we only "give credit" to sighting of players that have strong velocity.  We will miss cases where a player is standing, but these will be uncommon, and excluding these slow movements will exclude many off court players.

- **playing is everywhere** - a player in the game should be seen in many distant regions of the court over a period of minutes in the game, else they are not playing.
  ==> thus we track where we see a player over a sliding window, (via a bounding box, or tiles) and only count a player if we see them in a range of locations.

- **no teleportation** - hallucinated players do not follow the normal laws of physics, often they appear from no where and disappear the same way.
  ==> we exclude sightings that cannot be "threaded" across the visual scene in a reasonable way.