k
supported_game_metrics = []
- game - 
- shots - 
- moment -
 
- tracklet -
- detect -


My_inst.json
main:
   base: swiss_army

stages:
	gallery:
	   module3:
	     alpha: 11

- game & time
- align - 


foo.py
"""

XXXX - dddddd

"""


foo.XXX 



I have some concerns around OKRs.  I am a data guy so I like measuring things, and I like the idea that we are saying we are going to iterate to get the right OKRs to move our business forward, so all of that is great.  But as they say, you get what you measure... and this will be true for OKRs too.  For repeatable, mature parts of our business like sales, I think this is an ideal way to drive the business.  If it is not moving product, it is not working.  Sometimes we need allowances for a new product, or new way of selling, but it is a good way to drive the ship.  For QA it is a great way to measure progress.  Checking for and finding bugs is a very repeatable process that is well driven by metrics.

Software is less so.  We can track features per month, story points, or lines of code or such but these are very gamble measures and they don't strongly tie to outcomes.  And things that DO tie to outcomes are pretty discontinuous and non-repeatable.  We can track our progress against them, but it not quantified in a universal way, but it tied to each sub-goal which is dramatically different from each other sub-goal attempted, so any unified quantification scheme is quite fraught.

Then we get to computer vision development.  This is even worse.  We have very indirect measures of what is possible and how difficult it is.  At the lowest levels the direction of the work is shifting on a day by day basis, based on results found in the day or three proceeding it.  This does not allow for good metrics at all.

My tentative though for SW and CV is that we j






SHOT TIPS SPEEDUP
- "pre-roll shots"
- Experiment to assess speedup
- Figure out percent AI-addressible shots
- Speed of stripdown system



Get Miguel gold standard games


Sarthi - build
Martin - latest shot detect
build slimed verision of system


Analysis
- accuracy
- speeds