
# W45   2025-11-03   [[2025-W44|<<]] [[2025-W46|>>]]
- [x] [[SV]]: Darien
- [ ] [T59](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Mnu6bwVw9bqxGq40uM_fBZ6x_75O3c6H) Compute Roadmap: Basic plan
- [ ] [[Seek]]: Vittorio, App, Calls, 
- [x] [[CIAO]]: RdMap
- [ ] [[AIS]]: The plan & assessment; call Brandon
- [ ] [[Lrn]]: Train Sys?; Hours In
- [ ] [[CN]]: 1h
- [x] [[NJ.2]]: plan

- Dataset improvements.  ()
-    Signal +4915111647774  whatapp
-   thomas.dullien@googlemail.com
### Mon-3
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
### Tue-4
- [ ] 
### Wed-5
- [ ] AIS - 
- [ ] Job 
### Thu-6
- [ ] 
### Fri-7
- [ ] 


Hehe, well you know me, I defintely have no love for Trump, and I think he has really hurt our country.

-- I think his bet against gloabalization to save jobs is the same bet the USSR made in the 1980s when it saw that its companies could not compete --- this path does not end well, I just hope later presidents reverse this before it is too late.
-- I think Trump is correct to see China as threat number one.  But when squaring up against a tough guy on the play ground, the worst thing you want to do is to piss off all of your friends who might help out before the big fight.  he has squandered 80+ years of good will for trifling benefits in trade with our allies.
-- I think he wants to pull all power to himself as much as possible, so he is breaking down every possible check and balance on presidential power he can.  But he will not always be president, and you can bet the next guy is going to use every weakness he is creating.  We are on our way to having a "strong man" democracy where they guy at the top just does what he wants.  this is against 200+ years of constitutional democracy.  bummer.



But all that said, I am giving Trump the benefit of the doubt on both Israel and Ukraine.  Perhaps he really is a bone head who cannot make up his mind.  But I am not so sure....

He told the Gazan's they he wanted to kick them all out and create riviara of the middle east with that land.  Holy Shit!  But then whips out a 20-point plan that says they can stay, and they can travel freely to other places AND COME BACK.  Very different picture.

I think he was serious about the Riveria of the Middle East (even though that is completely impractical) but it kinda scares the shit out of everyone, before giving



