
# W13   2025-03-24   [[2025-W12|<<]] [[2025-W14|>>]]
- [ ] [[NJ.1]]	Contacts
- [ ] [[CN]]: 	3-5 connects
- [ ] [[Alien Biology]]:
- [ ] [[LRN Todo]]	3 Papers
- [ ] [[LRN Todo]]	DL C3 (2 days)
- [ ] SV:		Q1 end
- [ ] [[MED.]] 	5x this week
- [ ] [[NJ.]]:


### Mon-24
- [ ] 2w 2e 1:c 3d
- [ ] [[Repeat]]
- [ ] 
### Tue-25
- [ ] 1:c 
- [ ] 
### Wed-26
- [ ] 
### Thu-27
- [ ] 1:e 1:m 
### Fri-28
- [ ] 1:m 


Sean,

A buddy of mine is working at Meta on their VR glasses.  He was a manager under me at Aeolus, and I think highly of him as an Engineer.  He is preparing to leave Meta and do a tennis startup focused on a little Bluetooth device he has prototyped.  You attach this tiny widget to the strings of your racket and use your phone's camera to jointly optimize your tennis swing.

It looks like a plausible direction, and I think he is a plausible founder to run with this.  As engineers often do, he is currently just doing this in isolation.  My sense is that he is correct in getting a working prototype first, as he will attract more money and co-founders.  Still, as engineers often do, he is only thinking about the technical problem and not about the channels he will eventually be using to get to his customers.  As you know, it is quite possible for him to produce the wrong prototype/product.  I would love to help him out and get him a few friendly introductions to folks who would be knowledgeable contacts.  My sense is that he and his idea are legit enough that it can be worth such a person's time.

Here's his LinkedIn:  https://www.linkedin.com/in/felipelavratti/

Let me know your thoughts

--Dan




Felipe is a friend
A friend and former employee and str
