
# W14   2025-03-31   [[2025-W13|<<]] [[2025-W15|>>]]
- [ ] [[CN]]:		Apply 3x
- [ ] [[NJ.1]]	Contacts
- [ ] [[CN]]: 	3-5 connects
- [ ] [[Alien Biology]]: Sent
- [ ] [[LRN.]]	3 Papers
- [ ] [[LRN.]]	DL C3 (2 days)
- [ ] SV:		Q1 end
- [ ] [[MED.]] 	4x this week
- [ ] [[NJ.]]:

### Mon-31
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
- [ ] 1:c 
### Tue-1
- [ ] 
### Wed-2
- [ ] 2w
### Thu-3
- [ ] 
### Fri-4
- [ ] 

YOU WROTE:
So yes, again, I'm happy to acknowledge that there are issues with immigration. The problem is, they're not nearly as big as most of the MAGA faithful imagines

We agree on both points!

YOU WROTE
Speaking from experience, changing even a single mind takes so much time and energy, they're so angry and defensive and aggressively stupid  ...  they're exactly like the woke left.

Again we agree completely.  (I am from Kentucky, the redest of the red, and I live in San Fran, the bluest of the blue).  Both are easily manipulated (ok, MAGA is easier to manipulate), but still, qualitatively, they are the same.


My point is one needs to begin by acknowledging any truths that exist within all positions digging to find them and address them if possible even if they are not the most important things to address.  In order to manipulate the manipulatable, you first have to defeat the levers being used against you, before you can focus attention elsewhere.












>   You, my friend, are about to enter the world of academia, where you, as a parent, must demand an education for your son.

Yeah, I am already there Uncle.  Eli is going to a private school -- they come in two flavors out here:  social justice focused, and curriculum focused.

I will give you a hint which kind Eli is in:  The biggest parent event so far was math celebration day.  The principal organized a focus group among parents in the AI-field on how the school should be incorporating AI advances into the curriculum.  

For Eli's current event presentation (in kindegarden!) he presented on the egg shortage and bird flu.  (some google help from mom and dad involved)
Eli used his little pointer to show where egg prices went up the most, and explained his graph showing price levels over time.
(Qingling was impressed that Eli seems to be a natural bullshitter just like his daddy.  He would confidently answer the many questions asked of him, and effortlessly made shit up when he really didn't know an answer.)

But you are exactly right, we are among the poorest parents at the school, many are dual income techie families.  No way in heck they are sending their kids to a public school, and no way they are putting up with any bullshit from the school either.  They and the school know who holds the purse strings, you can tell the school is ever mindful of that fact.

But these parents really are not the ones voting for the craziness in the city.  Techies as a whole are not so very liberal.


I am just shocked to hear KY would have a similar law.

Really if one wanted to make public schools farer, then don't fund schools at the district level from property taxes, instead spread that money evenly at the state or even federal level.  Why should a public school in a rich district get more money than one is a poorer district?  All other taxes EXCEPT schools are done at the state or federal level.

But stopping parent from paying, is just transparently making things farer by REDUCING everyone down to the least.

I still can't see how such a stupid communist idea like this happen in a red state like KY???
















Chuck,
Actually I am close to 50/50 in cash... 

I have seen graphs like the one you show of the ten+ year draw down and I am equally sobered by them.  The CAPE-ratio is as bad as ever, and now with inflation where it is, I think the FED has much less maneuvering room than the last time to create a quick recovery.

I also see things as frothy.  I never imagined T-bills as not being a safe place to be.  Honestly I still cannot imagine it.

It use to be a joke, but especially after the 2008 bailout the Fed realized they really CAN just print more money.  Now inflation is high, and the world is getting pretty pissed off at paying our bills.  Still I think the world would punish us more if we defaulted on our T-bills.  I think even the most starry-eye Republican Trump lovers in Congress would put their foot down before allowing the USA to default on those.  (I hope!!). And Trump is a business man, he love to be wreckless in a way that convinces he negotiating partner that he is completely unhinged and could do anything.  but in the end, I think he has said enough things to indicate that he understand the value of having a trusted dollar.   (Note: I am NOT a Trump supporter I just don't think he is irrational, he's just opinionated, unethical, and mean spirited)

Still I would like to diversify from T-bills, and perhaps drop my equity exposure even further for a time.  By accident I have 20% of my net worth in bitcoin of all things.  (This is from a $9K investment in 2012).  That is a weird but effective hedge.  But I wonder if there is other contrarian investments I might make.