
# W32   2025-08-04   [[2025-W31|<<]] [[2025-W33|>>]]
- [ ] 

### Mon-4
- [ ] [[Repeat]]
- [ ] lots of hookanchor debugging
### Tue-5
- [ ] 
### Wed-6
- [ ] 
### Thu-7
- [ ] 
### Fri-8
- [ ] 


xx  

She's a level eight and quite busy. And my relationship with her spans a number of years, but it's still a pretty superficial relationship. I pushed it one time and she got together with me for Coffee to talk about careers at Google and what I might do, it was great.

Since then, we see each other occasionally since our kids go to the same school. But I've not managed to do stuff socially with her.  She likes skiing and we have invited her to Tahoe but that has yet to work.

 Generally, I feel like I can ask her for very targeted favors, and that would work. But these days, with few positions open, I don't think it's worth asking her often for work-related stuff unless I have a pretty targeted ask.

I have a better friend in Google research that I feel I can actually ask questions of more often. And I have a friend in Waymo that I can also ask questions of.  But in the end, I'm not sure if there's any job right now being posted in a Google related company.



 Yes, and here's my idea the server uses the Apple script portion that makes it invisible when it's when it aims to make it invisible, and then when it wants to make it       │
│   visible, it uses the portion that you had to make it visible and to test its visibiliNow the way the server operates is if it believes that the pop-up is active, it calls    │
│   the activate script and either the activate script returns success or it does not if it returns success it's done if it does not return success then it terminates the        │
│   pop-up and restarts it and then tries to activate it. It probably retries this activation a couple of times before permanently failing maybe there's a parameter in the       │
│   config file server, pop-up server, retry retries or something like that let's set it to three. How does that sound for an implementation the robust and hopefully also        │
│   quick? Do you see any downsides or any way to improve this idea?  






- one liner at the top of each source file?
- 



Hey Yashin,

Before I sold Analytics Fire, I had the idea that I was never gonna work a regular job again. It seemed plausible that I had enough money that I could do this still earning some from startups or such. I always knew if this fell through, I could just go back and work for Google or something like that in the Bay Area. Well, none of this has worked out as I imagined. I do need to get the Google job, but now it seems that the Google job is really out of reach. Had I tried to get this job in 2021 I almost certainly would've gotten it. But things have changed so fast I think that's impossible.

Still, while I have a job at least on paper, maybe I can get a job at a tier 2 company, and this would still earn reasonable money. I have a window of time to make this transition or it's probably not gonna work either. There's a very real chance now that even though I was a hot commodity not so long ago they literally I'm just going to get pushed out of the workforce permanently. This is actually happening to quite a few folks right now.

Financially, I can probably survive this OK. Qingling is gonna be quite upset, she's counting on me earning a lot more than her in order to pay for private school and blah blah blah. Well, it just might not be this way. We might even need to move out of the Bay Area live someplace cheaper. But you can see I need to figure all this stuff out in the near term, but in the mid and longer term, I've always imagined spending my energies doing something useful for the world. Indeed, when I imagined no longer needing a job, it was precisely to work on ideas like the one you and I are recently talking about. I've always had the sense that as a working guy I just have OK value, but as an ideas, guy for fixing problems like the ones we're discussing, it seemed like I had a rare combination of motivation to do so, and unique ideas that might have value.


So I'm definitely not against trying to push the forum idea forward! And I appreciate you taking an interest in that path, and that idea. Like I said, I think I have a few fish on the fire right now, so I need to be careful about getting pulled into another cool idea, that doesn't solve my central problem right now. That said let me talk for a minute about what you said regarding what would be needed to get the ball rolling:

-1- PITCH - yes One would need a simple pitch deck and a compelling 5 to 10 minute explanation of what the value is. This is totally in range, I would probably take 20 to 50 hours to put together in a strong way. The goal of the pitch would be to:
(a) convince one of the ORG's that you mentioned, or many others as well, that the idea had enough merit to try to help out a little bit.
(b) but these ORG's directly don't have what I need. What I need is 20 to 100 people who have also seen the pitch, and agree to spend the next months spending hours per week, reading and writing about political topics. Such people are rare, but I think certain types are naturally drawn to this activity anyway. So it will be a matter of finding them, and convincing a small number of them of the value of the experiment.

-2- THE EXPERIMENT - the core value of this idea, is that partisans will only listen to their fellow partisans in assessing the truth of many political "facts".  So I hope to engage rational, but also highly partisan people in discussions aimed at finding a bits of common ground that can be found. Not common ground regarding conclusions, Just acknowledgment of underlying facts that begrudgingly both sides end up accepting here a few of the key things to be tested:
(a) can a few rare people actually engage in this kind of discussion in an ongoing way driven by their own motivation?
(b) can these few rare people actually after debate end up the grudgingly accepting basic facts pushed by the other side?
(c) assuming both of these things happen and these partisans write up they're begrudging acceptance of certain things, does this become compelling evidence for similar partisans to accept those same basic underlying facts?

Logically to me, it seems like all three of those things would happen. But of course, I have to admit I really have no idea, you just gotta run the experiment and see!

-3- THE EXPERIMENTAL SETUP - I go back-and-forth on the question of how much software is needed in order to run the experiment itself. On the one hand, a simple discussion board, a wiki server, and some three dollar an hour Philippine labor might be used to manually execute many of the steps as required by the software just to do the experiment. Still, since these days you can vibe code pretty complicated systems. It might be worth it to simply vibe code a POC system that would allow even the experiment to be done inside and to end software that was designed specifically to be "The Forum"

It would still take me 100+ hours to do this. But a lot of of that time is actually thinking through very carefully the exact workflow that each person would need to do for each activity they need to do. This is not something I can outsource to anyone else, in fact, my experience is that most people are really crappy and thinking about how to make a low friction workflows. Even for me, I'm gonna need to drink my coffee get up early in the morning and think really hard about this over and over again to have any shot of getting a decent UX. Still, I love this work and I have lots of thoughts about how this could be made very low friction.

-4- POC ORGANIZATION - assuming that the experiment went well, and it seemed like one could have an organization of people who debated online and published partisan position papers that tried to summarize relevant facts around current topics. There would still be a lot of work to actually turn that into something useful. I think the experiment would naturally evolve into a POC organization, that looked a little bit like the flipside which you introduce me to. But the difference would be hyper partisan summaries that hopefully were more believed by each side.

-5- SCALE UP - and then, of course if One could have a freestanding organization that did this, maximizing, its impact would be all about scaling this up. The core of the organization would probably always be rare individuals willing to sync significant time into these debates. Still, I think they exist, scaling this up would be all about scaling up and organization too many thousands. But in my wildest dreams, even traditional journalism would look to the conclusions synthesized via this method as a best understanding of how partisan humanity viewed the facts, when they actually took the time to deeply understand them.

I think that scaled up deliverable, in my wildest dreams, could actually move a needle in our political discussions.

Too bad it probably can't be my full-time, reasonably paid job ;-)

--dan




