
# W36   2025-09-01   [[2025-W35|<<]] [[2025-W37|>>]]
- [x] [Reco](hook://reco): plan
- [ ] [[Mit]]: personal stuff; Friday
- [ ] [[Mit]]: Apply
- [ ] [[Mit]]: CN
- [ ] [[Mit]]: War
- [ ] [[Mit]]: Quick learn

### Mon-1
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
### Tue-2
- [ ] 
### Wed-3
- [ ] 
### Thu-4
- [ ] 
### Fri-5
- [ ] 

BePersonalization

Memory & preference layer for generative models.



update the command editing, so that we add the U flag when editing notion commands, and manually add the U flag to all existing notion commands in commands.txt

update notions scanning to capture the URL and add this to our log during scanning.

update scanning so it removes all notion commands that do not have the U flag.  Then for each notion page create notion command for each.


Two parties
- Ben & Sam (Coalition League) - Basketball
- ?? (Mad Hatter) -
	- Task with building media platform around game recordings: 
	  brands, data, highlights, and all opportunities
	- Could we skin & white label your app.
	- Fork your code?


 Please update the system so that JavaScript can also print detailed logging messages just like the rest of the system can. And let's also make sure that the logging that's   │
│   done in JavaScript is converted to detailed logging when appropriate. And really let's make sure that all logging in the system which should be detailed logging is           │
│   converted over.Please consider the volume of log Messages generated, and generally high volume log Messages should be detailed log messages unless there's a good reason      │
│   that they are standard src/utils/logging.   

