
# W23   2025-06-02   [[2025-W22|<<]] [[2025-W24|>>]]
- [ ] MIT: ranklst, 

### Mon-2
- [ ] 
### Tue-3
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
### Wed-4
- [ ] 
### Thu-5
- [ ] ctc lst; rack stack
- [ ] [[lrn]] 
### Fri-6
- [ ] 


Chris, you ask the question:

> Did every axiom and every number already and "always" exist, or did math itself maybe evolve out of something even more fundamental?

My answer is yes, and yes.  It always existed, and it also does depend upon something more fundamental (though one might label that more fundamental thing also math).

But either way, this thing it depends upon does not and cannot evolve or be different, so that itself also always existed (in the same limited sense that it exists right now)

I don't think I have conveyed well WHY I feel so certain about this (even if I am somehow wrong).  So let me try:

Are you familiar with Peano's arithmetic?   It starts with "0" and the successor function "S(x)", so S(0) is one and S(S(0)) is 2.  Starting from only these one can discover basic algebra, all the way up to prime numbers.

So think about that.  once you write down.  "0 and the successor function S(x)" then all of basic algebra is implied and must have exactly the properties that we know today.  There is no room for deviation!

Thus, whatever structure connects 0 & S(x) to prime numbers is somehow inherent and eternal, it existed before you wrote those down.  The only wiggle room I see to claim that (a) prime numbers were 'invented' the first moment that  "item" and "next" were first thought, or (b) it is 'invented' as soon as symbolic manipulation was invented.

Perhaps true.  But I would say that the physicality of our current universe points so strongly to both of those ideas that one must at least acknowledge that as soon as the laws of physics existed, they implied both of these things since they are so well connected to the behavior of that physics.  Physics "points" to those concepts like an large arrow.

And for me, once you have "pointed" to a math concept, then it exists.  Once you write 0 and S(x), then all natural numbers exist.

But my intuition goes even further.   I suspect that math exists even w/o our universe existing.  It is a latent potential, just as the number 23482349328 is latent potential once you write "0 and S(x)".  I suspect it depends upon "regularity," but nothing more.  Sure, there might be other universes that, for example, do not have particles at all, so it is just barely conceivable that even identifying and numbering things would not make sense.  In such a world, its inhabitants might never notice that natural numbers.  But if these inhabitants existed at all, then there would need to be some other kind of regularity upon which they were based, and it would have its own rules.  That would yield a different math.  But if the base rules were explained here, we could understand them and the conclusions we would draw would be the same as their conclusions.

So again, it seems we have only admitted that there could be other rule starting points, but the space of all of these seems to still already exist, since their consequences are already pinned down by something eternal.

I guess you could try to say that before all of these universes perhaps there was a place where rule following or logical thinking did not exist.  And then none of this other stuff did either.  

But if that is true, what happened to the cause the possibility of rule-following exist?  To me, this just makes little sense. These notions don't really belong on a timeline.  The existence of math concepts exist outside of time. Thus, they cannot be caused to exist.  (We can only cause them to be known, but what it is that will end up known has been pre-ordained in a place outside of time.)