
# W37   2025-09-08   [[2025-W36|<<]] [[2025-W38|>>]]
- [x] [Reco](hook://reco): plan, get data, 
- [ ] [[self]]: Workout, >150, personal stuff; Tuesday
- [ ] [[Seek]]: App!
- [ ] [[CN]]: 
- [ ] [[Mit]]: War
- [ ] [[Mit]]: Quick learn
- [ ] [[Lrn]]: Flash, SVnlp, 

### Mon-8
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
### Tue-9
- [ ] 
### Wed-10
- [ ] 
### Thu-11
- [ ] [Forum](hook://forum) 
### Fri-12
- [ ] 

Games now
Mid November
Feb/March

- Send pixelot API
- Agreement on API
- Agreement on Oct 10 as begin integration testing
- Sneakernet tests.
- HLS 


Max Preps - Rosters
- 


Ezra,

In my view, your voice and thinking are what America needs right now. Perhaps it would help more if it were more explicit about an agenda that I think is latent in your thinking, I propose you bring this to the fore:

`You made a compelling case that Democrats should shut down the government, but I fear they will choose issues and frame it in ways that don't serve them or the nation.  Here is a proposal that I think follows from many things you have explicit stated in your excellent talks:


DEMOCRATS NEED A COHESIVE AGENDA 
- Going negative on the other guy, really does work, but it works best when you also have a broad vision that the listener believes in.  
- The Democrats need a vision that the electorate is galvanized by.
- NOTICE:  A vision need not be comprehensive; it need not speak to all issues, but those issues it does speak to should all have broad national support. 

FOLLOW THE DEMOGRAPHICS
- I live in San Francisco (and from Kentucky), so I have an up close and very personal view of the thinking on both sides.  
- As you have pointed out 
- ==> You should explicitly enumerate many potential planks and notable areas to avoid

EXPRESS ENTHUSIASM
- Many Democrats here find limiting oneself to moderate positions is simply accepting defeat but I think this is in accurate.
	- First, we live in a democracy so they should not want to push America to accept positions that most Americans dislike even if it is right.
	- Opinions need to change first, AND THEY ARE.  100 years ago one could be openly and proudly anti-semitic, 60 years ago openly racist, 40 years ago openly homophobic.  Today, NONE are acceptable in polite company on either side of the aisle.  
	- This is a relentless movement to the left.  And it is what angers conservatives greatly!  But it is inevitable as long as we don't overstep the overton window.  
	- We cannot push for policies that are not supported by most.
- Express enthusiasm for what can be done within that envelope!  Its all moving left (unless we drop the ball) and many important things for workers, evironment, health can be frame within this broader mandate.  Get the left to see the greatness it can do while building from a broad base.


LEARN FROM TRUMP - USE ONE-TWO PUNCH WITH ONES LIMITED AIR TIME
- Attack more vigorously, but always from a position of demographic strength
 THEN the democrats can go negative on trump by anchoring it attack from 



