
# W33   2025-08-11   [[2025-W32|<<]] [[2025-W34|>>]]
- [ ] 

### Mon-11
- [ ] [[Repeat]] 
### Tue-12
- [ ] 
### Wed-13
- [ ] 
### Thu-14
- [ ] 
### Fri-15
- [ ] 


[[texter]] 


Steve, let me just say "fair enough" for your response here, there is nuance, but we are saying the same thing.  I am most interested in your challenge to my thinking about a way forward for Gaza. You wrote:  

"my [Steve's] reasoning is still based on facts and evidence and logic.  ...  ... given that your [Dan's] proposed solution to this is a police state for Palestinians ... where they get to prove their loyalty ... while the Israelis just get to go about their lives, I don't think you're nearly as rational or impartial as you believe yourself to be."

LOVE IT!  And I am open to having these ideas edited (or defeated), and in any case, I would benefit from your challenge to their rationality.  I believe wishful thinking is causing the deaths of tens of thousands.  If that is true, then gaining clarity has great value, and if it is not true, then at least I gain wisdom.  

So if you are up for it, let's dispense with emotion and focus entirely on plausible courses of action and credible outcomes for Gaza.  The crux of my argument hinges on two assertions:  (1) If Israel genuinely feels it is under mortal threat from Gaza, it will never relinquish deep control of Gaza, even under extreme political pressure.

There is much to say about who is at fault etc. on this topic, but I think it is good to get the bedrock assertion firmly in our sights.  If it is a true statement, then it provide a milestone on ALL paths forward for Gaza.  I claim all roads forward MUST travel through an extended period where the bulk of Israelis feel a mortal threat from Palestinians is behind them.  This is not a moral or emotional claim...  Rather, this is a logical/pragmatic claim.

Now, of course, one can pressure Israel in many other ways to help this along.  (For example, by pressuring them to get rid of Settlements, provide fair treatment/water for Gazans, or in other ways.)  But I claim it is damaging to push Israel to have LESS security control over Gaza while a significant mortal threat remains, since one is using one's finite resources in a direction that can never bear fruit.

Of course, it's fine to support pushing Israel to make things better for Palestinians, this will advance us along this common road, but I despair that it will be too little, forever too little.  The problem is that even if Israel invests many Billions in Gaza and the West Bank, and removes the settlements, and provides many other benefits, the Gazans will still be trapped and under total Israeli control.  And this leads me to my second assertion:  This means (2) Some notable fraction of the Gazan population will not be satisfied if they don't have complete freedom from Israel.  I understand this impulse, after so many generations of occupation, they will still aim to use violence to overthrow Israel's control.

Because of #1 and #2, I wanted a faster (viable) path to getting a set of Palestinians who are governing themselves well enough to ensure Israeli safety.  Not because it is fair or morally correct to have that goal, but rather because it is logically required for progress.

A self-selecting set of Palestinians might establish a prosperous economy and guarantees of Israeli safety much more quickly.  With this achieved, THEN it is fruitful to pressure Israel to give this group ever greater freedoms.  There will exist no credible counterargument against providing this group with more freedom incrementally, and indeed, many (but not all) Israelis would WANT to give freedoms to such a group.

Some will argue that removing the threat of violence will quench any motivation Israel has for providing greater freedoms to this group.  However I believe this is not a valid argument, and mountains of historical evidence refute it.  When people feel threatened, they will support almost any atrocity to gain control. When a group feels safe, it is the primary time it feels magnanimous.  Still, no doubt pressure would need to be applied, but at least pressure has a chance to have an effect on a group that feels safe; it nearly never works on a group that feels threatened.

AND those Palestinians not in this group would have ever more reason to join.  Once it was shown to be a path to a stable prosperous life, they would arrive in droves, and would happily trade Israeli security for their prosperity.

You claimed that I did not want to put anything upon Israel, but I DO want to put a considerable onus upon Israel and a significant onus upon all in the West who will benefit from a resolution to the Palestinian question.  We need to ensure that, economically, this group can thrive.  This will take many Billions... not at first, since the group will be tiny.  but as soon as desperate Palestinians realize this is a path out of the squalor they are in, many will take it (I think), and then it will become expensive to keep it thriving.

But I reason that Israel owes this to the Palestinian people.  Even before Oct-7th, innocent Gazans suffer so that Israelis are safe, Israel can say they have no choice given Hamas' stance. I say "Fine, Israel, but if subjugation of the innocent is the price for that safety, you owe a lot to those innocents.  Israel cannot have it both ways:  If it declares that it must control a people for its own safety, then it becomes responsible for the well-being of those people.

And with an enclave like this one, it completely removes any argument about the threat to Israel.  This is the best context for doves to win arguments against hawks, both inside and outside Israel.  Because of the logical necessity of claim #1, we must play this as a chess game; we need to align the pieces to achieve near 100% non-aggression from all Gazans.  Gazan's need to become better at governing toward Israeli safety than Israel can do itself.  This is a very tall order given where we are today, but very possible for a subgroup that truly is committed to that goal.  

The best counterproposal I can imagine to this would be a proposal to massively pressure Israel to take unilateral steps to make life better for Gazans.  But for Israel to believe this is a logical step, they must believe that it will be enough to satisfy Hamas and also the many, many individuals in Gaza.  It's a tall order.  I think most Gazans will tell you nothing short of total freedom will suffice.  But if this is true, then it is not logical for Israel to budge, not while there is a mortal threat.

And even worse is the favored path of American liberals is the "feel good" path of pressuring Israel to "be good," to make two states, and give Palestinians the freedom they so clearly deserve.  I call this a "feel good" path because emotionally and morally it feels and is right, yet as a policy, it is stillborn.  Israel opening the Gaza borders for free travel and commerce, achieving #1 is a logical impossibility.  Using one's political capital to push for this goal anyway is akin to saying  "let me eat cake!"  It is an action borne out of ignorance or worse, borne out of a desire to virtual-signal for yourself or your voters, than it is about actually solving the problem.

What are your thoughts about all of this?  And your thoughts about my two assertions, too?









