
# W11   2025-03-10   [[2025-W10|<<]] [[2025-W12|>>]]
- [ ] [[NJ.1]]	Real Tier II list
- [ ] [[LRN.]]	DL C3 (2 days)
- [ ] [[LRN.]]	3 Papers
- [ ] [[CN]]: 	3-5 connects
- [ ] SV:		AI&Ann ; Alpha Testing
- [ ] [[MED.]] 	5x this week

two channels
- lead-gen, informal, formal
- inbound: concrete msg
	- recruiter

### Mon-10
- [ ] [[Repeat]]
- [ ] [[NJ.1]]: job posting
- [ ] [[LRN.]] Paper
- [ ] [[LRN.]] Coursera
### Tue-11
- [ ] 1:c 3e 6d
- [ ] [[NJ.1]]	Real Tier II list
### Wed-12
- [ ] 2m 1:c 1:e 2p 1d
### Thu-13
- [ ] 1:e 3d :m 3e 3p
- [x] [[NJ.1]]: Get List
- [ ] [[cn]]: contacts
- [ ] [[LRN.]] Paper
- [ ] [[LRN.]] Coursera
### Fri-14
- [ ] d
- [ ] [[NJ.1]]: Scan to add from inbox
- [x] [[cn]]: contacts
- [ ] [[LRN.]] Paper
- [x] [[LRN.]] Coursera






Chris,
I don't think 1,2,3 is possible.  Israel will never allow an autonomous region that it does not believe is safe.  The 3, 2, 1 causally dictated.  But the good news is that I think ensuring #3 first is a nice thing since we would like Palestinians to have a present life worth protecting.

But I think your second point can be addressed.  One could define the specific conditions needed in order for a second state to be allowed.  Generally, it's going to some kind of condition like having safety greater than today (which I think is easy since Hamas is actively working against such safety today), But there is little reason for me to propose the specific rules here as Israel would need to agree to them, not me.

Further, I would say it is best to avoid all-or-nothing thinking here. There is too little track record for Israel to be pressured into agreeing to anything.  A better approach is to make moves that improve life for some Gazan... that is an immediate benefit even if nothing further happens. here are some steps along the way:

(1) Get a high-level agreement from Israel that provides a nominal progression and timeline.  The assumption is at each step; we are continuously proving they are safer with the enclave than w/o it.

The more the enclave has already proven it can ensure safety, the less pressure is required to push the next step. So, it may not be logical to try to push hard up front.  Notice this is all predicated on the enclave being a better place to live than not.  So, there is no loss in beginning down this road, even if the end is not assured.

(2) An enclave is formed with a tiny number of people chosen specifically for their zealous desire for peace and ensuring Israel safety.  They are the 1-in-1000 people zealously ready to support Israeli safety.  

(3) Notice that Israel has little need to trust anything (which is a good thing). Over the months, Israel can see that its ability to monitor within this enclave is so much better than elsewhere that it is natural to encourage the enclave.

Then, at a FUTURE TIME (only months after starting) is the natural time to pressure Israel to allow this enclave to have a few easily reversed freedoms.  Pressuring them to accept now something they don't believe in is harder than pressuring them later once there is hard evidence that enclave monitoring is working.

And notice a side benefit here:  suppose you are right, we create an enclave that has a notably better quality of life, and its citizens zealously ensure Israeli safety, AND Israel will not budge in giving them more freedoms.  This becomes the proof of Israeli intransigence that we do not have today.  Today, an Israeli can say (and honestly believe): "If only the Palestinians could be trusted to have freedom, we would give it to them."  Palestinians have never had a state strong enough to police its own people against retaliation for lands lost.

Today, Israel can defensibly make that claim (whether it is true or not).  In my world, they could not.



As far as being optimistic, well, I am not optimistic that any nation (like the USA or EU) will expend the political capital needed to pressure Israel in this way... so I am not sure I am optimistic either.  but if people saw this as a viable path, THEN maybe they would pressure Israel.  What I like about this path is (unlike today) it naturally increases pressure on Israel to afford freedoms.  Today Israel can LEGITIMATELY argue we cannot allow Gaza to have concrete, they will build tunnels, or pipes, they will build rockets.  And the claim is TRUE.  You and I both know there is more to that story.  Still in my world such arguments would be demonstrably false about this enclave.  

So the pressure would mount.  And Israel needs to invest $ to monitor Gaza, I am sure they would prefer a self-monitoring region...  so why not let them have a few more freedoms?

As far as your claims that Israel will never change.  I cannot know you are wrong, but I think we should be humble.  

I noticed two things:  (1) In negotiation with Arafat, I think Israelis were ready to give Palestinians a state...  without the right of return, and perhaps with only a tiny slice of Jerusalem, but I think it was a real offer under consideration. It will be hard to get back to this spot as much bad blood has happened since, still, if it was possible before, it can be again.  (2) I remember during Apartide, I had friends in South Africa who were (a) colored,(b)  Afrikan, and (c) white.  The only thing they agreed upon was that the present system would remain for decades and decades.  ... and this was just scant years before it fell.

So never say never.  

The only thing we really know is:
(3) Palestinians will never support peace when they live in squalor.
(2) Israelis will never support independence before Palestinians can ensure safety better than they can.

So I think, at the least, we know the proper direction to move in ...

now, in addition to convincing you, if I could only convince the US and EU. :-)






