# 999humor333 -- Quotes

     <<>>   Jokes 
     <<>>   Quotes 
     <<>>     
     
     
     
    >Subject: Things to keep in mind 
    > 
    >Before criticizing someone, walk a mile in their shoes.  
    >Then when you do criticize them, you will be a mile away and  
    >have their shoes. 
    >======== 
    >If you ever drop your keys into a river of molten lava,  
    >let'em go, because, man, they're gone. 
    >======== 
    >If trees could scream, would we be so cavalier about cutting  
    >them down? We might, if they screamed all the time, for no  
    >good reason. 
    >======== 
    >To me, it's a good idea to always carry two sacks of something  
    >when you walk around. That way, if anybody says, "Hey, can you 
    >give me a hand?", you can say, "Sorry, got these sacks." 
    >======== 
    >The face of a child can say it all, especially the mouth  
    >part of the face. 
    >======== 
    >If a kid asks where rain comes from, I think a cute thing to  
    >tell him is "God is crying."  And if he asks why God is crying, 
    >another cute thing to tell him is "Probably because of something  
    >you did." 
    >======== 
    >I hope if dogs ever take over the world and they choose a  
    >king, they don't just go by size, because I bet there are  
    >some Chihuahuas with some good ideas. 
    >======== 
    >Maybe in order to understand mankind we have to look at that  
    >word itself. MANKIND. Basically, it's made up of two separate  
    >words: "mank" and "ind."  What do these words mean?  It's a  
    >mystery and so is mankind. 
    >======== 
    >It's easy to sit there and say you'd like to have more money.  
    >And I guess that's what I like about it. It's easy. Just  
    >sitting there, rocking back and forth, wanting that money. 
    >======== 
    >As the light changed from red to green to yellow and back  
    >to red again, I sat there thinking about life. Was it nothing  
    >more than a bunch of honking and yelling? Sometimes it seemed  
    >that way. 
    >======== 
    >I can picture in my mind a world without war, a world without  
    >hate. And I can picture us attacking that world, because they'd 
    >never expect it. 
    >======== 
    >During the Middle Ages, probably one of the biggest mistakes  
    >was not putting on your armor because you were "just going 
    >down to the corner." 
    >======== 
    >When I found the skull in the woods, the first thing I did was  
    >call the police.  But then I got curious about it.  I picked  
    >it up and started wondering who this person was and why he had  
    >deer horns. 
    >======== 
    >If you're a cowboy and you're dragging a guy behind your  
    >horse, I bet it would really make you mad if you looked back  
    >and the guy was reading a magazine. 
    >======== 
    >Broken promises don't upset me. I just think, why did they  
    >believe me? 
    >======== 
    >Consider the daffodil. And while you're doing that, I'll be  
    >over here, looking through your stuff. 
    >======== 
    >I hope that after I die, people will say of me, "That guy  
    >sure owed me a lot of money." 
    > 
     
     
    >Subject: Smartass Comments 
    > 
    >1)Ahhh...I see the fuck-up fairy has visited us again... 
    > 
    >2)The fact that no one understands you doesn't mean you're an artist. 
    > 
    >3)I don't know what your problem is, but I'll bet it's hard to pronounce. 
    > 
    >4)Any connection between your reality and mine is purely coincidental. 
    > 
    >5)I have plenty of talent and vision. I just don't give a damn. 
    > 
    >6)I like you. You remind me of when I was young and stupid. 
    > 
    >7)What am I? Flypaper for freaks!? 
    > 
    >8)I'm not being rude. You're just insignificant. 
    > 
    >9)I'm already visualizing the duct tape over your mouth. 
    > 
    >10)Thank you. We're all refreshed and challenged by your unique point of view. 
    > 
    >11)I will always cherish the initial misconceptions I had about you. 
    > 
    >12)It's a thankless job, but I've got a lot of Karma to burn off. 
    > 
    >13)No, my powers can only be used for good. 
    > 
    >14)How about never? Is never good for you? 
    > 
    >15)I'm really easy to get along with once you people learn to worship me. 
    > 
    >16)You sound reasonable...Time to up my medication. 
    > 
    >17)I'll try being nicer if you'll try being smarter. 
    > 
    >18)I'm out of my mind, but feel free to leave a message... 
    > 
    >19)I don't work here. I'm a consultant. 
    > 
    >20)Who me? I just wander from room to room. 
    > 
    >21)My toys! My toys! I can't do this job without my toys! 
    > 
    >22)It might look like I'm doing nothing, but at the cellular level I'm really quite busy. 
    > 
    >23)At least I have a positive attitude about my destructive habits. 
    > 
    >24)You are validating my inherent mistrust of strangers. 
    > 
    >25)I see you've set aside this special time to humiliate yourself in public. 
    > 
    >26)Someday, we'll look back on this, laugh nervously, and change the subject. 
    > 
     
     
