

The EduCorp business model is organized around a hypothetical franchise corporation with a "nominal" configuration in terms of numbers of employees, number of units produced, customers served, assets required, etc.  Each numeric parameter has a 'nominal' value which is the value used in our modeling of the business, as well as a minimum and maximum value that we believe is still clearly workable as a possible business to fit into the EduCorp framework.



The parameters in this section outline this business.   as is section outlines the parameters for this nominal franchise as well as the variation one expects that will often exist above and below these nominal values.  The range serves as a guide for the maximum and minimum sizes that should be considered for each aspect of the business.



## THE NOMINAL "UNIT" CORP
These descriptive parameters provide a basic outline of the franchise business.

#### BUSINESS TYPE 
What kind of business is this?  Expressed as name for the kind of business as well as a short description of the business.

#### EMPLOYEE PROFILE(S)
What kind of people can be trained to be employed in this business?  
What PRE-requisite skills are needed?  What are the expected characteristics?

After training what new skills must have been mastered in order to be a proficient owner and worker in this type of business.

For many simple businesses there will only be a single profile for a single type of partner that comes together to build this business.  The assumption is that employee will wear multiple hats and in many organizations even the CEO will also be a worker within the org.  As the org grows this will become less true.  Still for sizing the org we focus on a total head count knowing that all of these functions must be accounted for inside an actual organization. 

In the case that radically different skillsets are needed within a single organization right from the beginning the org may list multiple employee profiles counts in order to model these disparate skills.  For example "Remote medical practice" might involve 2 doctors, 5 nurses, and 10 staff, since those skill as so different and not interchangeable, one must model the business as a couple distinct skill groups.

#### SIZE - Num Employees
Number of employees in an ideal sized version of this kind of company.  If this business has multiple employee profiles, then this sizing will have an employee count for each employee profile type. 

#### CUSTOMER PROFILE(S)
What are the profiles for the expected customers for this business?

#### PRODUCT PROFILE(S)
What good(s) or service(s) are produced by this business?

#### UNIT TYPE(S)
For our analysis we compute costs in terms of "units" of good or service produce.  Here for each broad category of value generated we define a nominal 'unit' of output.  For a call center it might be a call serviced.  For a farm it might a chicken that was sold.  Simple businesses will only have a single output unit type even if there is some variation within that product.

#### VARIATIONAL SCOPE
Below our analysis imagines businesses that are adapted for other geographies for setting up the business, other markets for customers, or other related business types.  Here we list the range of variation that we imagine occurring from one business to their child businesses.

For example a bee keeping business template might specify the employees and customers are all sourced within a single city in Kenya.  But variations might include businesses started anywhere in Africa or Southwest Asia, and customers that are national, or international.  Variational scope can be expressed in one or more levels, each larger level will result in a different larger addressable market analysis.



## P&L ANALYSIS - Profit and Loss Analysis

After some nominal ramp up period our "unit" business reaches some nominal level of capacity.  The parameters here provide us with a simple model of the cash flow generated by the business at different productive capacity levels.  These terms can be used to understand what our payback period will be under different circumstances.


## PROFIT - PRODUCTS PRODUCED

#### UNIT PRICE
The nominal price obtained (in USD) for each unit sold.

#### CAPACITY - Units Per Month
This is the expected or nominal number of unit products or services that the corp will product in a month.

#### MARKET - Num Customers, or Customer Aggregate Revenue 
One way to think about capacity is to consider the number of customers needed to generate demand matching the org's capacity.  This can be measured as raw number of customers, or perhaps as a total revenue generated by sufficiently many customers.




## LOSS - COSTS INCURRED


#### FIXED COSTS - Ongoing Monthly Costs

#### VARIABLE COSTS - Incremental Cost Per Unit Produced



## QUALIFIERS
The EduCorp framing affords certain benefits to its franchises (like startup capital and training) and places certain constraints on these businesses (like shortened payback period) as well.  Thus it is important that the prospective businesses satisfy these constraints in order to fit into the the EduCorp model.  Likewise, it is important that the prospective businesses take advantage of many of the benefits provided by the EduCorp model (otherwise there is no advantage for operating within the EduCorp model if not to avail oneself of some benefit for having done so).

## BENEFITS PROVIDED (AS REQUIRED BY THESE BUSINESSES)

#### TRAINING MASTERY MONTHS
How many months does it take to become sufficiently trained that one could operate ones own business with only modest mentoring from outside ones corporation?

#### TRAINING PROFICIENCY MONTHS
How many months of training are required to become a proficient worker in the buisness assuming close supervision by one with mastery over the business?

#### TRAINING COST
What is the nominal cost on would need to pay in order to obtain the training needed to run ones own business if one were to do this outside of the EduCorp framework?



#### UPFRONT ASSETS
What upfront assets are required to create a new business of this type, exclude any assets which are covered in the P&L section below, these are the assets required to being production of ones first "units" of value.

#### UPFRONT COST
Total estimated cost in USD required get a newly formed business up and running, producing enough goods that it can cover its own operational costs.

#### REBUILDING COSTS
What are the costs of rebuilding the school after a sister corporation was split from the school, plus the operating costs required to get all the way to the next graduation day, or until the school is once again breaking even given the value that it is producing.

#### FOUNDING SCHOOL ASSETS
The very first school may require unique assets associated with the school itself rather than the corporations spun out of the founding school.

#### FOUNDING SCHOOL COST
The total cost for founding the first school and funding the school to the point that it is able to break even as a business or is able to reach graduation day when the school is sold to under class persons.



#### NETWORK
What business relationships are required for this business to thrive.  Including customer relationships, vendor relations, etc.

#### NETWORK PORTABILITY
Assuming that a school has a robustly functioning network of customers, vendors, etc.  How easily can the parent school 'port' these network relations to the newly formed corporation w/o diminishing its own remaining network.  For example, a school and business having strong network portability will be able to easily find customers for its newly formed sub company, by using its strong customer relationships and branding to find new customers for itself and hand of existing customer, or directly find customers for is sub-company.  A company / business with weak network portability will be able to offer little direct assistance to it newly formed sub-company in finding customer, vendors, or other network partners.


## QUALIFYING CONSTRAINTS (AS REQUIRED FOR BUSINESSES TO FIT WITHIN THE MODEL)

#### REPEATABILITY 
A business is strongly repeatable 
If a strongly producing school is repeatably create strongly producing companies of the same type, then we way this business has strong repeatability.  Otherwise we say it has weak repeatability.



### MARKET SIZE
One aspect of repeatability is the size of the market that this business exists within.  The size of this market ultimately limits the repeatability of the business as it cannot repeat beyond the carrying capacity of the market itself.  Here we have various measures the potential size of the market that this business is in.

#### SCALE 
The number of this kind of business that could be created while maintaining sufficient customer demand to support all created businesses.  The scale number imagines building businesses using the "same" template for all businesses.  So if that template does not restrict the geography of each new business then the scale will measure the world wide scale for this business.  Many templates however will be targeted towards a single geography, thus their scale will only cover that geography.

#### VARIATIONAL SCALE 
This is the number businesses that could be sustained by each variational scoping listed above.

#### TAM / SAM / SOM
Traditional market analysis considers the total addressable market, the serviceable addressable market, and the expected Share of Market.  These same measures can be used to derive the scale and variational scale numbers listed above.  One can compute TAM/SAM/SOM for each variational scope.



