# ulearn.Processes --


    * Flatten
    * Forward chaining
    * Surprise <<>> Expectation







    RETE
    - Forward chaining on M-of-N on conjunction symbols


    SURPRISE/EXPECTATION
    - Maintains stats on P(symbol|pattern) co-occurance where 'pattern' is an M-of-N set of symbols
    - Notices violated expectation:  P(sym|pat)>>0 and !sym
      May propose 'cause' for other differences
    - Notices new co-occurances:     P(sym|pat)>>0
      May add new symbol to pattern


    THE ASSOCIATOR (V1.0)   ??? Replaced by
    - Accepts a stream of tuple sets, and
      remembers patterns seen previously.


    GENERALIZATION
    - A Grouping of tokens based on their role in a recurring relationship
    - A Pattern with fewer constraints


    A PROCEDURE
    - Graph of internal contexts, where each context is has an associated
      search state.


    AN ACTIVE CONTROL CONTEXT -- A SEARCH STATE
    - A search control strategy (controled by internal context)
    - Controls which associatations are noticed


    ACTIVATION STATE (SEARCH STATE)
    - State of activivation for all nodes


    THINKING
    - Following associations (controlled by the search state)


    ACTIONS
    - Outputs (motor control)

    FEEDBACK
    - Control over training???
    - Positive reinfore of search that produce novel connections or understanding
      CONNECTIONS previously seen tokens (which are combos of tokens)
      UNDERSTANDING -- state achieved by subconscious procedure that attempts
      to map input graph into memory


    <<>>
    MODELING
    - An external entity generates a tuple stream.
    - A model attempts to mimic the association behavior generated by stream.
    - Attepts to predict important concepts
    - Both world model (projection) and thinking model. (reflection)

    <<>>
    REFLECTION
    - System can see its thinking
    - It sees the active control contexts
    - It sees it status

    - STATUS.  Concept that expresses some aspect of the status of thinking:
      Productive,Unproductive,Novel,Important


    <<>>
    DESIRES

    - Hardwired objectives expressed in model of world, in thinking status

    - Adopted objectives ????

    - IMPORTANCE.  Association with a concept that controls thinking.
