# 2025-08-03 foo

Created: 2025-08-03 15:15


Is possible. Maybe that would be 20 to 50 hours worth of work. But when I look at those organizations, mostly they are not filled with people who would be the natural users of such a system. Still many of those organizations explicitly go out of their way to have regular access to these kinds of people.  If we convinced the organizers of braver angels, for example, in the potential value of this mission, we might convince them to be on the lookout for a tiny number of people to be actively engaged in such an effort. I think the first round of experimentation could be productively done with as little as 10 people who were very active on each side of the spectrum. I think the hardest people to engage will be conservatives, particularly conservatives who believe some of the more hard right positions, yet would still be willing to spend time researching to defend them.

I am torn on the question of whether or not we need to have a functioning system in order to do even the first experiments. I think a combination of wiki software, and threaded discussion software, combined, perhaps with cheap Philippine labor to execute some of the processes, one could probably do some early experiments. Still, present day, AI tooling would allow me to design an update interfaces with just tens of hours of my time. All told probably stretching into the hundreds of hours, but this would probably be a better experiment, since the frictions of using the system would be so much lower.

co

