[[ABIO]] 

TODO:
- Use GPT to capture dozens or hundreds of behavioral systems.
- Create generators that capture this diversity as stochastic generators of: 
	- biomolecules - as a DAG generator
	- bioprocesses - a set of parametric python formulas with pdf ranges for each parameter.

## Building An Alien Biology

In this section we sketch out we will construct an alien biology programmatically and then construct test tasks with parametrically-controlled complexity within these biologies.
Each of these steps relies heavily on current LLM systems to capture, distill and codify the alien generators required.
Broadly our approach is to:
1. Encode hundreds or thousands terrestrial biological systems formally within this framework.
2. Use these encodings to derive stocastic a generator for each aspect this biology framework that matches the trends found in terrestial biology. 
3. Use the generators a generator for alien biologies with similarity to terrestrial biology but with everything from atoms on upward only statistically related terrestrial biology.
4. Generate test tasks based on common terrestrial tasks (like predicting behavior of a system or curing a disease) within these alien biologies.
5. "Skin" these tasks with textual descriptions that serve as the test text for each generated test.

### DAG Generation
- Stochastically construct a DAG bottom up, layer by layer.
- Each layer's connectivity with lower layers is statistically modeled after Earth biology, though all the details from atoms are dynamically generated.

### BioParts
- Use DAG generation to construct an alien ecosystem, organism, organs, cells, organelles, etc.

### BioMolecule DAG
- Use DAG generation to construct an alien chemistry
- This represents the hierarchy of bond-forming / bond-breaking transitions between stable molecules.

### Optional Stochastic Overlays
- **BOND STRENGTH** — The potential energy increment and barrier energy for each new bond are stochastically selected so the entire DAG is energetically consistent. It is modeled after Earth bond strength distributions in a fashion similar to the DAG generator.
- **ENERGY CYCLES** — Stochastically select loops in the BioMolecule DAG for use in energy transport
- **COMBINATORIAL GROUPINGS** — Stochastically create sets of interchangeable sub-molecules for open-ended "coding" sets. (e. g. DNA, RNA, protein combinatorial grammars based on a simple conserved backbone structure.)

### Alien Chemistry
Alien Chemistry is generated by selecting energetically reductive combinations of transformations.
- The first targeted combination of edge directions is selected within the biomolecule graph.
- This indicates the molecular transformation that will result from this chemical reaction.
- If energy is being modeled, an appropriate set of energy cycle transitions is also selected, with sufficient surplus energy to overcome the barrier energy plus additional energy required for the target transformations.
- This set of multi-molecule transformations represents the Chemistry underlying this alien biology.

### BioProcesses
A key aspect of Terrestrial Chemistry is the rate at which various reactions will occur.  This is typically a function of reactant concentrations, temperature, inhibitors, and enzyme molecules.
- Inhibitor and Enzyme biomolecules are stochastically selected and
- Each reaction requires a Python function that defines the reaction rate at each time step.  These functions are modeled after many terrestrial reaction rate equations.


### BioBehaviors
The goal of Biology and Medicine is to understand and control the behaviors of a biosystem. 
For our Alien Biology, we either select these behaviors or create them by editing all of the biology listed above to introduce them into the alien system.
We begin with a small but versatile set of parametric behaviors.
- HOMEOSTASIS - The system is engineered to maintain a given molecule within a given concentration range within some bioparts.
- HOMEOSTATIC FORMULA - A generalization of homeostasis is a behavior that ensures some computed function of the bio system is maintained.  (for example, a given molecular concentration is maintained in proportion to some other signal, like temperature, or a signalling molecule)
- Others could be added, but these two are quite powerful


### Variation / Disease Model


### Tasking
To begin with, we can build test tasking stochastically from just three goals:
1. Understand some biology enough to predict its behavior in specific situations.
2. Cure a disease
3. Adjust some homeostatic level


## Simulate and edit the system to ensure desired behavior patterns occur.
- Verify homeostasis of all relevant biomolecules, edit chemistry and processes to fix any run-away effects
- Ensure biobehaviors occur as desired; edit the system if not.