# Journal.2006\_11\_19g -- Reverse cronological log of general information

     
      SELECT value from list by CLICKING on value. 
     
     
     
     
     
    === 06<<>>14<<>>02   
     
     
     
    Graph Rep 
     
     
     
     
     
    Web Sphere 
    * Linux  
     
    - Problems with parameters 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    STEVE TODO 
    - Find out about who is supporting Websphere installation for  linux 
    - Who is supporting other installations 
     
    - Southbury bull pit  (Problem Determination) what is the platform 
    - DB Administration   (Java console) 
     
    - Problem mgt 
    - Installation 
    - Configuration 
    - Optimization 
     
    - Tuning databases 
     
     
     
     
     
    bank of experts 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    === 06<<>>12<<>>02   
     
    - rollerblade.com 800 232-roll 
     
     
    === 06<<>>11<<>>02  insweb.com 
     
     
    z2zv8sg7js001@sneakemail 
    monarch 
     
    === 06<<>>11<<>>02  - Setup automobile pay 
      6322606 
      FFT POBOX 801997 
      Kansas City, MO 64180 
      $442.04 
     
     
    === 06<<>>11<<>>02  #23RJ3SH  new dirve 
     
    === 06<<>>10<<>>02  LINUX 
     
    look at I<<>>S search: Linux 
     
    linux-support@us.ibm.com 
     
     
     
    === 06<<>>10<<>>02  SINE access 
     
    Aventail uses SSL secure socet layer 
    32.97.182.240 <- server 
    443 ssl port 
     
     
     
    === 06<<>>07<<>>02   
     
     
     
    One hour later 
    5:30p-[6:30-7:15] 
    6:00a-9:30 
     
    W6p... 
    W...7a-11a 
     
     
     
     
    === 06<<>>05<<>>02  SINE SETUP 
     
    SINE Individual Registration -- Accepted 
     
    Your Registration request has been accepted. 
     
     
     
    Email: oblio@us.ibm.com  
    Name: Oblinger, Daniel A.  
    Notes Location: Daniel Oblinger<<>>Watson<<>>IBM@IBMUS  
    Serial Number: 208617  
    Country: USA  
     
     
    public1key 
     
    Please write this information down, or print this page, as it will be required in the next step of the registration process. During that step, you will receive an email within 48 hours from the certificate authority, GeoTrust. This email will contain a URL that when accessed will allow you to retrieve the Digital Certificate required for SINE. 
     
     
     
    === 06<<>>03<<>>02  - 800 727-2222 att net client 
     
     
    === 05<<>>31<<>>02   
     
    === 05<<>>31<<>>02  Japan phone 
     
    Setting up w. net2phone  877 
     
    PHONE 
    - 33       net2phone 
      $1+   
      7.9  per min using local access # 
      12.9 per min using 800 number 
     
    917 494 1272 Account 
     
    D0 pin 
     
     
    212 981-0500   
    718 677-4240 
    800 840-7438  
     
    User:  
     
     
     
    - 11       www.1010345.com 
    - 10.5     <<>> 
      -- 2.95 8. 10 
    - .99+8    www.10-10-987.com 
    - 12<<>>9@10  www.10-10-220.com 
     
     
    === 05<<>>31<<>>02  Setting up DTUT wireless 
     
    ipsec  tunneling 
     ip50, udp500, tcp389, 709, 5080,  
     
     
    === 05<<>>17<<>>02   
     
    Vittorio, thanks for the summary.  However one thing I'd like to point out is that we should talk to all the people we can who have problems that are related to the ones we plan to solve.  I don't mean that we should sign product commitments with these people.  But it will help us immensely to know how people would use our technology. 
     
    We're still considering tech support as a possible domain.  The first step towards evaluating that domain is figuring out what the state of the art is, and to do that we need to get out there with people in the field and find out what problems they are solving.  It's a basic principle of good software design, and apparently of good applied research as well --- make sure the problems you are solving are the ones people want you to solve. 
     
    I think the reason I haven't been motivated lately is because we've lost focus.  We've been working together for five months now and we still don't have a concrete problem to sink our mental teeth into.  I think it's essential that we pick a problem ASAP (even if it may be the wrong one), if only so that we can start moving forward.  I'm willing to wait until we talk to John and Mark next week, but I know I at least will be much happier once we come to a decision and can start hacking code again. 
     
    I hope that the fact that this decision has been postponed for so long is not representative of our group's inability to make decisions. 
     
    I'm meeting with folks up in YKT next Wednesday to talk to them about their work (automated helpdesk support in collaboration with IGS Scotland, and a FOAK on telematics and learning from<<>>adapting to users).  I would suggest we all do the same --- hit up your personal contacts for ideas on potential applications, get excited about a potential Personal Wizards domain, and share it with the rest of us. 
     
    Let's make the platform decision our first priority.  We've wasted enough time already.  We need to do everything we can to get us the information we need to make the decision. 
     
     
     
    package com.ibm.ar.interfaces; 
    import  java.util.*; 
     
     
    <<>>** 
     * (C) IBM Corp. 2002 
     * Clustering.java 
     * 
     * @version 0.0 
     * @author Vittorio Castelli 
     * 
     *  This interface is implemented by each clustering algorithm. 
     *  The 'create' method is a Factory for creating new instances. 
     *  The 'setParameters' method configures the clustering algorithm, 
     *  and 'induce' is the method that induces a ClusteringRule for outputting  
     *  a List of values given a List of AttrVects.  
     *  
     *<<>> 
     
    public interface Clustering <<>> 
     
    package com.ibm.ar.interfaces; 
    import  java.util.*; 
     
    <<>>** 
     * (C) IBM Corp. 2002 
     * ClusteringRule.java   
     * 
     * @version 0.0 
     * @author Vittorio Castelli 
     * 
     * 
     * A rule represents the decision procedure output by a classifier. 
     *  Its core method is apply which applies the learned rule to the  
     *  new AttrVect. 
     * 
     *  

    NOTE: Instances of this class for each new classifier must 
     *  implement:  print, and at least one apply method.  
     *<<>> 
    <<>>* Created:       05<<>>15<<>>2002  from Rule.java 
     * Last Modified: 05<<>>15<<>>2002  
     * ------------------------------------------------ 
     * Change Log: 
     * Date     Name     Change 
     * 05<<>>15<<>>02 Vittorio Created 
     *<<>> 
    public abstract class ClusteringRule <<>>*implements serializable*<<>> 
    <<>> 
     
      <<>>** Applies rule's procedure induced by 'induce' to specified 
       *  AttrVect.  
       * @param  aVect the AttrVect to which the rule must be applied, 
       *  to assign it to a cluster (or to multiple clusters if the rule 
       *  is not hard). 
       * @param scores  On Entry:<<<>>> a vector of float having length 
       *  at least equal to .
     
       *   On Return <<<>>> The first  entries contain the 
       *  scores (fuzzy memberships OR posterior probabilities) of   
       *  aVect<<<>>> for each cluster.  <<<>>>  
       *  If the clustering algorithm is hard, these numbers will be equal 
       *  to 0 except for the cluster to which aVect belongs. Otherwise, 
       *  the sum of the first  entries will be equal to 1, 
       *  and all the first  entries will be 
       *  non-negative.
     
       *  Entries of aVect<<<>>> at position  and above 
       *  are left unchanged. 
       * @return The result of executing the decison procedure 
       *  on the specified AttrVect:  
       *  in the case of a hard clustering rule this is the label 
       *    of the cluster to which the AttrVect  belongs;
     
       *  in the case of a fuzzy clustering rule this is the label  
       *    of the cluster with the highest membership function 
       *    for the given AttrVect;
     
       *  in the case of a soft (probabilistic) clustering rule this is 
       *    the label of the cluster with the highest posterior 
       *    probability for the given AttrVect;
     
       * 
       *  
    NOTE: At least ONE of the apply methods must be implemented. *<<>> 
     
      public int apply(AttrVect aVect, float[]scores) throws Exception <<>> 
     
      <<>> <<>> 
      <<>> CONVENIENCE METHODS FOR GROUP OPERATIONS 
     
      <<>>** Applies ClusteringRule to a List of AttrVects generating a List 
       * of predictions. 
       * @param aVects  a List<<<>>> of AttrVect<<<>>>s to be 
       * clustered 
       * @return a List<<<>>> containing the indexes of the clusters to 
       * which the corresponding elements of aVects<<<>>> belong. 
       *<<>>  
        public List apply(List aVects) throws Exception  <<>> 
            return result; 
        } 
     
      <<>>** Applies ClusteringRule to a List of AttrVects generating a 
       *   matrix of float scores.  
       * @param aVects  a List<<<>>> of AttrVect<<<>>>s to be 
       *  clustered 
       * @param scores   On Entry:<<<>>> a  matrix of floats, having at 
       *  least aVects.size() rows and  columns.
     
       *  OR: null 
     
       *  On Return:<<<>>> If aVect is not null on entry:  the first 
       *  aVects.size() rows times   columns are modified: each 
       *  row contains scores (across clusters) for the  corresponding AttrVect.  
       *  Each column contains the scores (across samples) for the 
       *  corresponding cluster. 
     
       *  If scores is null on entry, it is created as a matrix having  
       *  aVects.size() rows times   columns, and filled as 
       *  described above.  
       *  @return the matrix scores is returned. *<<>> 
      public float[][] apply(List aVects, float[][] scores) throws Exception <<>> 
        for (int r=0; r>> 
        return scores; 
      } 
    } 
     
     
     
    === 05/12/02   
     
    === 05/12/02   
     
     
     
    VirtualRent = TotalPayments - TaxRebate - EquityRebate - Appreciation 
     
    TotalPayments = MgtPay + CCosts + CoFee +  
     
     
     
     
    Payments 
    - MgtPay  =  
    - CCosts  $100 = $6000 for 5 yrs 
     
     
     
     
     
     
    IBM Credit Union 
     
     
     
    VirtualRent = TotalPayments - TaxRebate - EquityRebate 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    TotalPayments 
    - xxxx Morgage Payments 
    - $600 Coop/condo fee 
    - $200 Real Estate Tax 
    - $20  Home Insurance 
    - Utilities? 
     
     
    Closing Costs: 5-10K 
     
     
     
     
     
    ti = mr * ol 
    t  = ti * b 
     
     
     
    c  =        Coop/condo fees 
    ti =        Total interest 
    mr = 7%     Morgage rate  (7% coop) 
    ol =        Outstanding loan 
     
    b  = 32%    My Tax Bracket 
    t  =        Tax Break 
     
     
     
    100 2.24% 
     
     
     
     
     
     
    === 05/06/02  #0233292 
     
    === 04/24/02   
     
    === 04/19/02   
     
    Many details make up a idea, one of them is not usually going to break it. 
     
    A wrong decision early is better than a right decision late. 
     
    Reaching concensus is generally more important than being right. 
     
     
     
     
    === 04/15/02   
     
    === 04/05/02   
     
    yrs in buis 
    limit usage to avoid fees 
    multiple email accts 
     
    how does no domain work?ds 
     
    === 04/03/02   
     
    === 04/03/02  fix intellistation 
     
    800 426-7416  will send it. 
    # 21V4FYT 
     
    === 04/02/02   
     
    === 04/02/02   
     
    === 04/02/02   
     
    === 04/01/02   
     
    === 04/01/02  AR Proposal notes 
    -Add to planning: end user studies; deployment 
    -Off browser usage 
     
     
     
    <<>> 
     
    She is moving slower this time? 
    Yes 
    This is the guy whose concerns we need to address 
    Yes 
     
    script master 
    always on vibrate 
     
     
     
     
    -snowball 
    -what proc looks like (groups of triggered paths) 
    -brittle; changes; big 
     
    - if only we had them aligned we have data need to gen 
    - if only we knew how to match we could align 
    - iterative refinement 
     
     
    - how do we start? 
    - how to rep 
    - how to we handle non-sequetors? 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    Should I spend 3 min painting how we might do this? 
     
    NO. 
     
    we just ignore the non matchers. 
    they will not be the same over multiple traces 
     
     
     
     
     
    10:36 - Start too slow 
     
    ------------------------------------------------------- 
     
    VISION 
    once we've captured them..... 
    what is impt.  
     
     
    SCENERIO 
    - Critical words: 
      (1) this is an important problem 
      (2) we cant do it today (or we would) 
      (3) we will show you how we can do this 
     
    Each step is supposed to relate back to the example 
    procedure/trace rep should relate 
     
    version space? 
    what are the nodes?  compose email?  delete file? 
    type in phone number? 
     
     
    alignment 
    - dymanic programming does exponential # traces 
      in poly time. 
     
    In neon we should convince committee that we 
    could learn procedure 
     
     
     
    By aligning we robustly capture variablility  
    in a way that a script script writer cannot. 
     
     
     
     
    ------------------------------- 
    four most impt things 
    1 what we are doing 
    2 why is it impt/diff 
    3 what science to you bring 
    4 will it work 
     
     
    what differentiaes us: 
    - we are executable 
     
     
     
     
     
     
    --------------------------------- 
    We  
     
    scott 914 762 2222 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    - We cant obtain these easier 
    - Fixing wireless card 
     
    cost effective 
    - Its faster 
     
     
    one example 
     
    ----------------- 
    Target Usage  
    > Too wide and too different 
    - still bad! 
     
    = snowball's chance. 
     
    > execute: 
     
    > Email idea failed 
     
    > The desktop (sys mgmt) 
     
    - Not INTENT; similarity 
     
     
    Hard problem: 
    simultaneous generalization&alignment  
    Soln: 
    HMM + gen based similarity 
     
     
    What tests will you perform? 
     
     
     
     
    In/Out:  
     
    Universal plan 
     
    Core problem: gen/align 
     
    Why can we do it? 
     constant strings 
     
    Impact 
     
     
     
    --- ---  
     
     
     
     
     
    === 03/25/02   
     
    === 03/25/02  Closing CENTURA ACCOUNT 
     
    Will close.  They Will send check. 
    ----- 
     
    closing sun trust. 
     
    writing to: 
    Sun Trust bank. 
     
    Special services 
     
    PO BOX 621807 
    Orlando FL, 32862 
     
    ---  
    SFNB C-card claimed closed by Elan rep.   
    also Elan card closed. 
     
     
     
     
    === 03/25/02   
     
    ITALY 
    0.87 Eur per dollar 
     
    ToDo 
    - Rome Room 
    - Camera  
    - $$ Belt 
     
    <<>> - Travel 
    <<>> R Vatican   ??7:30am 
    <<>> R Ruins     Shopping 
    <<>> R EveTrav 
    <<>> N Conf,     Amalfi 
    <<>> N Naples 
    <<>> N Capri 
    <<>> R Pompay    Travel 
    <<>> R Travel    ??10:30am 
     
    NAPLES 
    -Amalfi (Sorrento, Ischia) 
    -Capri 
     Tiberius Villa 
    -Rome 
     Vatican Museum/Library 
    < 
     
     
    === 03/14/02   
     
    === 03/12/02   
     
    === 03/12/02   
     
    === 03/12/02  Vision check up 
     
    (800) 441-5741 Cust serv 
    Nat cen vision and aging 800 334-5497 
     
    518 438 2020  New State Opt Soc Association 
    518 449 7300 
     
    Dr choen @ mt kisko 
     
     
    === 03/12/02  Auto Refinancing 
     
    eloan e-loan   1-800-598-3265 
     
     
     
     
     
    State  
     
    Fleet collections 800 409-1578 
    Fax 904 394 9372 @ e-loan 
    Sandra 
     
    315 798-2773   
     
    loan # 
    my name vin  
    the person and the fax numbre 
    and request 
     
     
     
    800 255-3090 Cust serv. 
     
     
    E-LOAN  1-800-598-3265 
    Reopen. 
     
    800 440-0015 
    6.48% 
     
     
     
    800 598-3265 e-loan  6.48% 
     
     
     
    cardweb         C-cards 
    bankrate.com    Bank Loans 
    iMoneyNet.com   Mutual Funds 
     
    6% <--  
     
     
    Fleet Bank 800 440-0015 
    Last Payment     2/11   
    Next Payment 
    Balance          3/12  15198.95  8.99% 
     
    virtual bank 877 998 2265 x2656 
     
    === 03/11/02  Verizon vs. Sprint 
     
     
    - (877) 682-0215 
      Chris 
      $50 1300 min + 3000 N&W 
     
     
    (800) 922-0204 
     
    - Want to cancel my verizon service 
    -  
    - Went to  
     
     
     
     
     
    === 03/08/02  Jim Wynne 
     
    DTUT guy -Richard Schecter 
    -Ronny Raybune 
     
     
     
    splash 
    electronic honey?? 
    solid gold back. 
    604 
    bestie boys 
    ween 
    violent Femms 
    bestie boys 
     
     
     
     
    === 03/08/02   
     
    === 03/08/02  Changing over auto pays from Centura to Citibank 
     
    Acura auto pay  (Fleet bank 800-282-2265) 
      - CENTRUA 429.93 on 1/8 made it.  Failed on 2/6 & 3/8. 
      - CITI ONLINE setup for 4/6 ... 
      - two manual entries in quicken for 439.93 
     
    Rent 
      - CENTURA Rent 1425 on 1/22 made it.  Rent 2/21 failed. 
      - CITI ONLINE 1425 2/22 made it. 
     
     
    === 03/06/02   
     
    === 03/05/02  X Jennifer  977 8880 NYSC 
     
     
    === 03/04/02  pt club fit physical therapy 
     
    - Shoulder 914 762 2222 
     
     
    === 03/01/02   
     
    User fileset: proj.websites.www-stage.people.o.oblinger created...  
    Mount Point : <<>>  
     
     
    === 02/28/02   
     
    === 02/28/02  ITALY 
     
     
    I finally booked tickets.  For your free ticket, 
    you should go to pick up to United airline's 
    counter by March 1st.  They have an office in 
    Midtown as well. 
     
    Here is our schedule 
     
    Saturday, March 16 
    Lufthansa 403 
    Lv. Newark 6:05pm 
    Arr. Frankfurt 7:30am (next day) 
     
    Lufthansa 3832 
    Lv. Frankfurt 10:05am 
    Arr.Rome 11:50am 
     
    Sunday, March 24 
    Lufthansa 3849 
    Lv. Rome 10:05 am 
    Arr. Frankfurt 12:10pm 
     
    Lufthansa 402 
    Lv. Frankfurt 1:30pm 
    Arr. Newark 4:05pm 
     
    Your reservation number is R49NGM 
    My milageplus account number is 00151690416 
    (Yoshiko Jo) 
     
    United Airline office in Midtown 
    125 Park Avenue (between 41st and 42nd) 
    Open M-F 8:30am to 5:30pm 
     
    for 1 year 
    $75  
     
    === 02/25/02   
     
    === 02/20/02  IVP -- Industry Value Project 
     
     
    === 02/19/02   
     
    Review: A Decision-Tree-Based Symbolic Rule Induction System for Text Categorization 
    (Rating are contained at end of review) 
     
    This paper leaves the reader with the strong impression that considerable 
    practical experince that testing went into the specific modifications  
    suggested within the paper.  This feeling leaves me with a favoriable 
    impression of the paper.   
     
    Evaluation of these contributions however are weak in places in the paper. 
     
    The ideas that seem most important in the paper are: 
    (1)  the counting technique that yields O(n hl l-bar) verses O(n hl d) 
         I am convinced of the "at least ten fold" execution speed up 
         claimed in the paper.  The experimental execution times also 
         support this point well.  The authors do not make the claim 
         however that this counting technique is novel, and it is  
         a reasonably straightforward varient.  I do not know that it 
         has been reported, but the authors do not explicitly claim it 
         as novel (as they do with the Sibling Criterion for example). 
         This is critical, since this speedup is the one strongly supported 
         claim in the paper. 
     
    (2)  Moidified entropy is a very interesting idea.  This is perhaps the 
         most studied aspect of decision tree algorithms.  That said, to my 
         knowledge, this varient is a "new" point in that well-studied space. 
         If this varient was justified either empirically or theoretically 
         it alone would have supported the novelty aspect for the entire paper. 
         I was disappointed that neither form of justification was provided. 
         The comparison to C4.5 does not qualify since there are so many  
         other details about the algorthms (e.g. use of shrinkage) that are 
         different. 
     
         If this varient is superior to Gini, and Entropy on this domain, 
         it seems desirable to implement one or both of those varients in this 
         framework, so that a direct empirical comparison could be made at 
         least for this domain.  As it stands we have only an intuitive 
         discusion of why one might expect this measure to perform well. 
     
    (3)  The use of shrinkage (model averaging) was also effectively  
         motivated but ineffectively evaluated.  The authors suggested 
         that there was a baysian justification of these rather complex 
         shrinkage formulas.  If this has been made precise elsewhere 
         the author should reference it.  If this is unpublished  
         work, simply referencing a technical report along with 
         a paragraph describing the conclusions of this theoretical 
         jutification would enhance the work. 
     
         It seems the specific shrinkage critera developed in this paper is  
         novel, though the idea of model averaging decision trees has certainly 
         been explored.  (pruning techniques can be seen as a crude  
         model averaging technique.)  An empiric evalution of this particular 
         model averaging would have also been possible. 
     
    (4)  The conversion of the decision tree to concise rules using the 
         Sibling Criterion was the only technique explicitly stated to be 
         novel by the authors.  Indeed it does appear to be novel. 
         The authors do not compare it to other rule generation techniques, 
         but from their description it seems that this technique would be 
         much more efficient than more exhaustive techniques, but would not 
         always yield the most concise rule set.  Is this correct? 
         If so then we should see a discussion of the relative speeds of this 
         algorithm verses other rule generation algorithms.  I would not 
         be surprised to find this one more efficient, though if the 
         other algorithms execution times were dominated by the tree generation 
         then this advantage would probably not outweigh the cost of not having 
         the most concise ruleset. 
     
     
    The comparison of yours @ 87&80 verses C4.5 @ 78.9&78.9 is a nice result. 
    It does provide evidence that shrinkage and modified entropy are 
    useful in this domain even if we don't know where the benefit is being 
    derived.  We expect that boosted C4.5 will out perform your non-boosted 
    system.  The introspectablity of your rules of course compensate for 
    this loss.  But it suggests a more meaningful comparison.  We would  
    like to see the performance of the rule generation system against another 
    rule generation system, rather than a comparision to C4.5. 
     
     
     
    Details:  I was a bit confused why C4.5 was not listed with seperate 
    precision and recall measures.  Were they both exactly 78.9% ?? 
    Also a table showing the precision and recall for all configuations 
    would be very useful in comprehending the relationships in the 
    empirical data.  I am willing to believe that the difference reported 
    are statistically significant, but it did not seem that an analysis of 
    the significance of these difference was performed.  It should have been. 
     
     
    In summary I am recommending this paper for acceptance based on the 
    sheer volume of interesting and motivated ideas contained in it, along 
    with the aparently significant empirical work performed by the authors 
    in arriving at the ideas contained in the paper.  (comparisons to SVMs, 
    NaiveBayse, etc.) 
     
    That said, the paper would have been stronger if it have 
    carefully evaluated the impact of these ideas either empirically or  
    theoretically.  A paper that unabigousouly demonstrated the superiority 
    and novelty of even one of the four point listed above would be a strong  
    submission. 
     
    1) Does the paper have sufficient AI content to be included in a special  
    issue on AI?  (10     ) 
     
    Yes.  Decision trees are central to machine learning and to AI 
     
    2) Does the paper present a new insight or new teaching?  ( 6    ) 
    See discussion above. 
     
    3) Does the paper present a useful new technique?  ( 9    ) 
    Taken as a whole this seems to be a well thought out approach 
    to fast induction of concise rulesets. 
     
    4) Is the paper technically sound?  ( 8    ) 
    Yes.  The forms of evalution could have been different as discussed above, 
    but all of the work presented seem very carefully done. 
     
    5) Is the paper ready for acceptance? (no=needs much revision)   ( 7     ) 
    The writing and organization is excellent, and stands as is. 
    If it were possible to provide the theoretical justification for  
    the shrinkage criterion used, or a comparison of the optimallity 
    of the rule generation relative to other approaches, this would  
    improve the paper. 
     
    6) Overall, is the paper of acceptable quality?    ( 8    ) 
    Yes with the caveats listed above. 
     
    We ask you to supply more detailed comments for the following:  
     
    7) Confidential remarks (if any) to the editors. 
     
    8)  What is the main idea that is new and useful? 
     
    See the four point listed above. 
     
    Any additional comments that we should consider: 
     
    This paper clearly represents significant effort by researchers  
    experienced in decision tree classification.   
     
    The critical tone taken in the review is a reflection of my high 
    expectations.  Considerable work has been reported on many aspects 
    of decision tree classification, thus further contributions in this  
    have a very high bar to exceed in terms of evalution in order to be 
    of use to the field as a whole. 
     
     
     
     
    =============================================================================== 
    #############################################################################33 
    ========================================================================= 
     
     
    ---------- 
    1) Does the paper have sufficient AI content to be included in a special issue on AI?  (10) 
    Yes.  The paper ties together a surprising number of different AI techniques 
    in service of a single task (generating visual presentation of data patterns). 
    The solution rests on significant novel work in task-specific knowledge  
    representation.  It uses simple rule based inference.  It employs inductive 
    learning of decision trees, and case based reasoning. 
     
    All are core AI techniques. 
     
    ----------- 
    2) Does the paper present a new insight or new teaching?  (7) 
    The paper does not advance the state of the art in any of the core  
    AI techniques.  This is not surprising, a paper that did make a contribution 
    to one of these core areas would need to devote itself almost entirely to 
    the exposition of the advancement. 
     
    The contribution of this paper is (1) the expostion of the problem domain  
    itself, (2) its presentation of an AI-based approach to the problem, and (3) 
    the significant, novel knowledge representation work underlying their  
    solution. 
     
    ------------ 
    3) Does the paper present a useful new technique?  (4 Not Demonstrated) 
    In my opinion this is the large achillies heel for the entire paper. 
    If the paper presented an interesting tact on a well accepted technique, it 
    would not need to argue utility, in some sense the field already accepts  
    the utility.  In this case, however, the primary contribution is the problem 
    itself.  The authors do a good job of motivating the need for an automatic 
    data visualization package, but they do not do an acceptible job of  
    demonstrating that such a system is feasible.  By feasible I do not mean that 
    given enough effort the technique can be made to generate a visual display. 
    We want to see that at least in principle a system could be built that 
    would yield a new visual presentation using less effort than it would take 
    to simply generate that display using a conventional tool. 
     
    I believe justifying this point is paramount.  The problem itself 
    and the novel representation work done are not of real interest unless 
    there is a practical solution to the problem posed.  Like many AI solutions 
    this solution crucially depends on careful and copious knowledge engineering 
    in generating the examples for learning and CBR, and for encoding each 
    dataset that is to be visuallized. 
     
    The weakest justification is supplied for the inductive rule learning portion. 
    The authors encoded 60 examples culled from 500 in a number of source books. 
    Encoding these examples represnents significant effort.  And the rules 
    generated through learning we in the authors words about as effective as 
    the hand coded rules.  The authors mention that the rules are shorter than 
    the hand coded rules, but it is not even clear that this is a good thing. 
    It seems computational resources for rule execution is an insignificant 
    concern in this domain, so conciseness is only better if it results in better 
    understanablity or accuracy.  I doubt learned rules are more understandable 
    than hand crafted rules, there are too many reasons why hand crafting results 
    in better human understandability.  And accuracy is suspect as well, are 
    the missing conditions actually important conditions but were just not  
    exercised by the 60 examples in the training set, or did the hand crafters 
    really just add unneeded conditions.  The authors do not elaborate, but even 
    if they did, this is slim justification. 
     
    Fortunately, the paper does not rest solely on the efficacy of induction 
    vs. hand crafting.   A justification that in principle a useful system 
    could be built around the rest of the approach.  The paper argues that 
    this approach is good because using examples allows the system's capabilities 
    to be expanded easily since examples are relatively cheap.  I am skeptical. 
    New examples, that represnt new visualization techniques will require  
    extensions to ones reprentation of visual features and data features in a 
    way that permits the complex non-one-to-one interplay between visual and data 
    object within picture object to be adequately expresses.  If these connections 
    are not well thought out it will be difficult to encode examples as input 
    for automatic visual generation, and rules captured by new examples will 
    not be expressible, unless the right connections are made in the  
    representation.  Far from being easy, the strides made in this direction 
    are the contribution of the work.  So we cannot justify a solution on the 
    grounds that future examples will be easy to add.  Significant new  
    capabilities will require significant new well-thought-out represtations. 
     
    Fortunately, the authors can argue that generating the needed background 
    representation and examples, requries the significant efforts of experts 
    in both representation and in visual displays, but once encoded this  
    effort can be amortized over many many applications of the solution. 
    I believe if a successful story exists, this will be its form. 
    However, it still remains for the authors to justify that the encoding of  
    the data to be visualized and the goals sought in that visualization can 
    be encoded effectively and inexpensively by *non* experts.  They mention 
    that XML was used to express the data to be visuallized.  This sounds good,  


    TRUNCATED!!!
