# Journal.2007\_06\_23s --

    XXXXXXXXX


    No harm no foul here Candy, we are all pushing hard for best results.

    We spoke earlier, of some documents being "live" documents, where we gave regular update to other parties
    even though we were not done, or committed to them.  The well it is 5pm and here is where we are...
    I believe there are several reason for this approach:
    (1) In cases where we dont have time for serialized processes
    (2) In cases where we some other party could easily see we are going down a road that will lead to conflict we want
        to know as early as possible.
    (3) To allow collaboration in the creation process.

    I think it makes sense for documents where I am effectively co-writing them, to fall into this category of
    "live" docuemnts.

    I recognize this is a double edged sword: working together with Greg or others clearly moves the effort forward 
    in defining and resolving the APIs.  On the other hand, every minute Greg or others are working with me, is a minute 
    they are not progressing on other activities.  Of course I think the tradeoff is worth it in this case or I would not be pushing
    so hard.  

    Still everybody tends to have a larger sense of themselves .... so let me know if you think I am

    My sense is, that as long as I am keeping my interactions as one-on-one, and early in the pipe so that I am not suggesting 
    changes to things that have already be vetted and approved by others, then my impact on BAE resources is minimized.
    In a sense, 


    On the other hand, my picture of the constraints of the project as a whole
    and how those impact the APIs etc. seem to be best understood by me.  
