# Journal.2007\_04\_26 --

    mark reid


    I worked very closely (>30 hrs per week) for one summer with Mark Reid.  
    Based on the work of that summer we collaborated on subsequent publications for
    a period of about nine months afterwards.  Of the more than half dozen 
    students that I worked with at the same level, Mark was by far the strongest
    in a number of dimensions.

    We were doing reserach in text analytics.  In this work we were focused both
    on very pragmatic issues of developing a large empirical testing framework,
    and we were pushing the state of the art, in applying and devising algorithms
    to the problem of inferring technical skills based on email traffic.  Mark
    was strong at a very pragmatic level, as well as creative and strong in
    thinking about avenues of attack at the research level as well.  Attempting
    to infer technical skills from email, requires novel application of existing 
    text mining algorithms.  Often a single use of a technical term is enough to 
    establish that a person has a particular skill, but robustly establishing 
    context is very difficult (e.g. is this a talk announcemnt authored by someone else)

    Mark was creating in suggesting general approaches to the various issues, and 
    was quick and energetic about carrying out the emprical work necessary to test
    these ideas.  In short, he came in to a problem that was not his, and then
    really absorbed it quickly and was a generative independend part of our team
    quickly.  This problem became important to him, and he drove the reserach
    of his own accord.  This as well as his innovation separated him from others
    that have held similar roles in my experience.  I recommend him highly.

    #2.  Mark has extensive experience in ML.  and experience with kernel methods.
         I am not familure with Mark's experience in learning reductions
    #3   I have not seen Mark in a formal teaching context.  Yet based on his strong
         positive energy, his clarity, and desire to help, I expect him to good at this.
    #4   Again Mark's "get it done" attitude in my program was definitely at the 
         administrative level as well as others.  He owns the problem he is working on
         and does what is needed.
    #5   Potential for career development:  
         I expect that Mark with land as Faculty at a reserach focued University.
         As I said elsewhere, I have not interacted with mark later in his Ph.D. so
         I cannot assess what level he may ultimately attain.
    #6   Mark was well above average in abiltiy to initiate reserach.
         He was relatively young in his reserach career when we were together,
         so I cannot say exactly how he ranks relative to Reserach Faculty today, but
         I expect it will be favorable.
    #7   I can only speak to the reserach that he did at Watson reserach.
    #8   Again I do not know Mark in the University context, but I cannot imagine
         based on his personality that any issue in this area is even remotely possible.

    Personal Attributes
    #1   Very strong desire and abilty to interact with students and within a team
    #2   Very proficient command of english, both spoken and written
    #3   High ethical standards across his life.
