# Journal.2007\_03\_04 --

    RESPONSES

    High level comments:

    Vittorio,

    Here are a bunch of comments.  I tried to stay away from ones that require lots of work, but there
    are two:  One is to include figures in many places, I know you are a greek symbol kind of guy :-)
    but it is hard to put the pieces together in someplaces, and a few block diagram style figures could go along way.

    You will also seem my section reorg idea.  I bet you don't have the time for it... I understand if that is so of course.
    Overall it is a solid journal paper, and reading it reminds me just how much work, and creativity went into the project!

    Cheers, 
    dan


    -------
    I like our bring to the fore, the ideas of parallel PBD, and I like the way it is tied to our 
    early discussions with potential users.  But we should separate the sections of the document that
    abstractly describe collaborative PBD from the specifics of our implementation.

    Those details are appropriate for the paper, but it makes are approach seem tied to windows.
    (I think we can just move section for that)

    -------
    Also the many details like widget functionality, mouse<<>>key clicks, and really all the detailed sections
    feel rather randomly thrown together.  I think we could have a detailed block diagram that lists
    each of the parts.  This would be a tie these sections.

    -------
    Page 13: we talk about capture of state action pairs.  You guys did some pretty interesting heuristics for detecting quiecence. 
    We should have a short paragraph about our findings on this.  That is quite useful experience, we should document it.
    Ahh, on page 63 you do go back and talk about this.  Still we tried several different varients before finding one
    that screwed up the least.  A few sentences about the ones that didin't work e.g. fixed amount of time.
    time between messages, and I recall that we even considered time between some special class of messages (to ingore some meaningless class of clutter)
    ----
    Page 36:  The section on the learning algorithms is precise, but hard to follow.  Again, I feel a figure is really needed
    maybe that shows alternate procedure graph structures, and then a selection and then instantiated procedure graph structures etc.
    Basically a figure with many of the parts reference across that section listed.
    ------
    Section 3.7:  I mentioned this earlier, but here again I feel that we should move sections like this one, with add on
    bells and whistles away from the sections that provide the core formal algorithm.  The paper is strong it is both formal and 
    practical!  but when we mix the two, it becomes somewhat of a hodge podge.  (but I think we can mostly just reorder 
    sections)

    --------
    Page 67:  Ontrack adn off track... oh yeah, forgot about all of that!
    Page 68:  Nice characterization of our object matching algorithm.  There are so many parts to this whole thing!
    Man we did alot of work! 

    Really very few readers will be able to put all of this picture together withour figures.  But now I am feeling that
    we many need a sequence of figures that explode out parts from an overall figure...

    --------
    Page 85:  The discussion pf the user study was pretty detailed, which is just fine, and then
    we pull the discussion up to make a very broad conclusion (that collaborative PBD works) which is
    exactly what we wnat to conclude.  But I had trouble following the argument.  We say that the system is more correct than
    incorrect (at predicting user actions) and SimIO HMM correctly captured them.

    therefore parallel PBD works.

    I don't quite know the argument begin made here, but just one more sentence to connect to that conclusion would be worth alot.
    Are we saying that the traces were crazy with just a bit more than half actions are predictable, but we still managed to learn?
    Are we saying the system can agree with experts 50% of the time?

    In anycase this part here is the key justification coming from the study, we want to really emphasize it.

    --------
    I found some odd typos.   I wonder if my copy was messed up somehow.
    Page 9:  "the help center"   was some a random phrase that should be deleted
    page 20:  delete 'j' character at end of paragraph 1
    page 74:  numbering items at bottom of the page need some kind of indicator around the numbers
              maybe just turn 1 into (1)  2 into (2)





    ========== Forbus =========
    Overall = Exceptional

    The combination of strong capability, prior experience on the problem, strength of the technical solution, and 
    its strong relevance to the ipto mission make this an exceptional proposal.

    Technical = Strong

    The sketching system this approach is built around is a strong departure from data input as it is practiced today.
    The overall integraton architecture is well thought out, and worthy of exploration.


    Capabilities = Exceptional

    Dr. Forbus has been engaged in research related to sketch understanding for many years, and has deep expertise to bring 
    to the proposed system.  

    DARPA<<>>IPTO Relavance = Exceptional

    The Data input problem is a know central issue for many militarily relevant domains, even beyond the
    COA domain explored here.  Effective mechanism for this will change what is possible accross many 
    areas, and will directly reduce the tooth to tail ratio.





    ========== Cohen ==============

    Overall = Strong
    (see technical)

    Technical = Strong

    The approach proposed is quite sound.  The detail provided demonstrates the level of prior work this 
    proposal will build upon.

    My one reservation regarding this work:
    It contrasts itself with discrete time-based planning, but there has been some prior work moving beyond such simple
    models.  I know of much work in continuous models of space (e.g. in spatial reasoning system).
    I believe some similar work has been done with non-descrete models of time.  This proposal does not describe its
    relation to this prior work, or how it might be different.  I am not enough of an expert to assess whether this
    work has strong novel contributions, or if it is "reinventing the wheel" in some ways.

    My assessment of the work as strong is based on an assumption that it does not significantly 



    IPTO Mission <<>> Relvance = Exceptional

    Reasoning over continuous time processes is very relevant to the battlefield and is poorly handled by most 
    planning/reasoning systems used in practice today.  Thus research into non-temorally discrete models of action
    is quite relevant to DARPA's role in supporting the military.

    Capabilities = Expert

    Dr. Cohen is an expert is the field of AI, and has been engaged in research tightly related to this proposal for 
    many years.
