# Journal.2007\_01\_22a --

    DOUG 1


    Ahh the question I wanted to answer.

    So first I must say it is my *belief* about connections between these features "income" crime, etc. are more based on observed rates, and less on apriori assumptions.
    I cant prove it.

    But I can at least attempt to be precise in what I am claiming.



    Here is the thought experiment.  (with some effort this thought experiment could actually be carried out)

    Steps:
    (1) Unbiased identification of (input/output) features
    (2) Unbiased analysis of realationships
    RESULT:  exposition of statistically most predictive model of the data

    First we ask citizens of the US to list features of individuals which represent "success" or are somehow indicative of good things about that person about their contribution to society, or about anything that they think we as a society should strive for as expressed as properties of individuals.  They they also list input features of individuals that could be predictors for the output features the listed.

    We then ask for definitions for each feature, and we provide lists of other's popular definition s of these features.  At the end of this process we hope to have 100 or 1000 of features on individuals.

    STEP 2a.   We rename all features to be input1, input2, input3, ... and output1, output2, ...
    STEP 2b.   We collect data on the citizens of the US according to the top features and top definitions in STEP 1.
    STEP 2c    We hire statistical analysts, and tell them that we have collect gene array data plus efficacy of a range of cancer treatment options.  They are requested to produce the best (most predictive models) of the output features given the input features using any stat techniques they want.

    Once they are done we map their models back to the original feature terms and call this our RUMPM  (Relatively Unbaised Most Predictive Model)

    Notice this process intentionally avoids allowing any prior knowledge known to the analysts or known to the organizers of this experiment to affect the RUMPM.  This is a good thing if that prior k is misguided.  It is a bad think if useful priors are available.

    When I claim to be an empiricist, I am claiming that my beliefs are more a function of the relative frequency of particular features combinations observed and less of an apriori understanding of how the world works.

    The primray difference between us on this point is that if I show you that population X
    has an increased Y, you immediatly explain how that is because of some confounding factor Z is to blame.   If you show me a coorelation X to Y I will immediately be swayed (to some degree) in the possiblitity of that connection.  

    that is because I don't feel I know what is under all this complex stuff, so
    if I see a strong coorelation between X and Y, my working assumption is that there is quite possibly a causal link there.  Logically you could be right that there might not be one, indeed it is virtually impossible for some of these cases to ever obtain data which proves the connect.  So you simply refuse to accept that connection (even if it produces a more predictive model) because you have strong prior knowlege that that connection is probably not there.

    I have no such strong prior knowledge.   If X  coorelates with Y better than any other feature coorelates with Y, then in absence of other information, I conclude *probably* X caused Y.

    I am more of an empiricist.

    that is what I mean.  The only evidence for this position is that some of the strongest coorelational evidence is consistent w. beliefs that I have.  



    By contract, when I claimed that Africans with little economic means do well while African American's with similar means dont fair as well you retort that whites dont hate blacks rather they hate Af *american* culture itself.

    This is a logical conclusion if you have some apriori reason for believing that differences between cultural subgroups are primarily caused by the larger cultures reaction to the subculture.  If one starts with that premise, and are faced with empirical evidence then the appropriate conclusion is to explain that observation given the super-group at fault model.

    Notice the "its the super group's fault" is not empirically arrived at it built deeply in.
    I don't think you have strong beliefs about any particular subgroup.  Rather you have a strong belief about the relation between *any* subgroup and the super group.
    (At least this is my interpretation so far)

    I don't have a strong belief one way or the other about this.  
    When I consider the issue, I try to find A and  A' that look similar to the super group and see how they fare.   (whenever I tried to do that with you, you will immediately attack any difference perceptable to the super group that separate A and A')
    Again this is logical on your part, especially if you are sure if the plight of all subcultures are the the fault of the super group.  


    well you have taken me a hour or so closer to NYC!
    so by any random chance you wouldn't have an hour or two to catch a game of Go monday morning somewhere in NYC?

    Just a slim hope.

    Cheers, 
    dan
