# Journal.2007\_06\_14a --


    Got it.

    I agree that the yellow team is not doing reserach; its costs must be minimized.

    You mentioned choosing the 'a good example problem' to show there is a there there.
    I believe that is not sufficient.  We have seen again and again that smart reserachers
    can hard-code learning to demonstrate impressive results--but results that do not
    translate to other problems (without reseracher intervention).  
    The 'there there' in this program is single learning system that learns a diversity
    of domains.  Further, my primary leverage on the performers over the life time of the
    program is the creation of additional ladders and rungs that continue to push the envelop
    of their algorithms toward increasingly human like natural instruction.

    I just need to obtain these benefits, while minimizing the costs of this non-reserach
    portion of the program.  I believe their are several factors that can help me do this.
    (use of simulated worlds, use of existing software, resue of same simulated world to
    produce multiple ladders)

    A final point on the subject:  Becuase BL is not getting data from the real world,
    its data processing is much lighter than other DARPA learning program.  Thus the
    fraction of money spent in BL on this non-reserach portion is already significantly less than
    other programs, it is just that those programs to not explicitly separate that cost out,
    in those programs data preprocessing is part of the reserach budget.

    That said, I will find ways to reduce this cost.

    Thanks,
    dan


    Tony,

    > Much better 
    Thanks.

    > why does the Evaluation and Integration cost as much as one of the Learning teams?  

    A significant challenge in BL is the formalization of each Natural Instruction interface.
    The Red team will over see workshops defining and refining this interface throughout the
    program.  They also are the arbitrator on the Interlingua 
    (the common exchange language used between between learning processes while bootstrapping)
    For these roles I have budgeted 3 senior reseracher, and 3 supporting staff.

    My challenge is to "sell" this integrator role in the BAA in a way that entices
    the strongest AI reserachers, since it has such large impact on the program as a whole.


    > Also why is the cost of the Instruction so much?

    The bulk of the code for any machine learning application is the abstraction of data
    for the ML algorithms.  Unlike other DARPA programs, this program intentionally separates
    that work away into the ladder teams away from the learning teams.

    These ladders will contain simulators with instrumentation for perception and action; 
    problem generators; editors that allow a human to input demonstration sequences with commentary etc.
    Each natural instruction method, will need some way to input the appropriate data.

    That said, I calculated these numbers conservatively, I assumed much of the ladder was generated from scratch.  
    In the BAA I am making it clear that the winning teams will be those team the can promise the greatest reuse of existing
    simulators, training systems, etc.  Thus I hope the winning teams will provide the complexity we need for less.
