# Journal.2007\_06\_19 --

    RAFTING   

    sat 29th  -- 9

      <<>>
      <<>>
      

    992-7238

    Rafting at Lower Youghiogheny (yak-a-gay-nee) River

    GUIDED TOUR RESERVATION:
           Done by Andrea last week for 8 people. Each person needs to call
    1-800-WWA-RAFT, ask for the Yudell
           reservation, and charge $60.20/person on their credit card.
           <<>>

    LODGING:
           I just reserved & paid for a multifamily camp site at the
    Ohiopyle state park,which fits 14 people.
           Relevant info below, the most important of which is that no
    alcohol allowed (sorry!). So far, for
           8 people it's $11/person for both nights. We also get Sunday
    night free for whoever would like
           to take the extra day off.

           <<>>


    ==========================================================
    Multifamily site

           VIP# 23690209
           Reservation # 321740

    Nightly rate: available $44/night, electricity available
    2 nights minimum
    Can put 14 people on one site, no tents > 8x8

    Site #45, Cherry section of park
    Check in earliest 3pm
    Check out by 3 pm
    No alcohol
    Firewood *if from outside park, please burn all prior departure,
    otherwise may endanger local ecosystem

    Not all sections of park open for entire season
    Nearest store 4 miles away
    Laundry mat 11 miles away
    ==========================================================

    CARPOOLING: For everyone on this email list, I (and possibly Elaine)
    are the only carless people, and I just reserved a space in Collette's
    car.

    ==>Is someone available to be a carpooling point person if the group
    gets larger?

    AVAILABILITY FOR MORE PEOPLE:

    TOUR    As of to-day, they said they could accommodate as many people as
    we might want to add on, so if you would
           like to invite others (some of us assumed from the beginning
    this would happen), please:

           1) let me know so that I can increase the # of people on the
    reservation AND update them on camping
           (ie whether they would be on multifamily site or apart).

           2) call in soon after the additional reservation is made to
    secure the spot

    CAMPING I'll also be able to advise on remaining spots for
    lodging at the multifamily campsite (6 so far)--
           otherwise, people will have to call in to reserve additional
    campsites 888-PA-PARKS. As of this AM, at least 24-30 sites
           (5 people/site) were available for the evening of the 28th, and
    the cost was $31/site for minimum Sat-Sun 2-day stay.
           I am happy to coordinate this if group gets this large.

    Since future availability on tour/camping is uncertain, let's try to do
    this this week. If either rafting tours or camping spots fill up
    I'll send y'all an email to let you know.

    So, if anyone is interested in staying longer on Sunday, the campsite
    is available...

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ------------------

    A group of us are organising a rafting trip on the Youghiogheny (yak a gay nee) River in Ohiopyle State Park, which is an estimated 3.5 hour drive from DC. The plan is to arrive sometime on Saturday the 28th, camp that evening in Ohiopyle state park, take a tour starting 8:30 am (with breaks etc it's 7.5 hours), then drive back that evening.

    GUIDED RAFTING TOUR : <<>>

    Cost: $60.20/person

    The raft down the river will just take 3 -4 hours but including an orientation, lunch break, and drive back to our cars, it ends up being  7 1/2 hour day.

    As of Monday AM, they said they could accommodate as many people as would like to come on a first-come first-served basis. So if you would like to come, please
           1) let me know so that I can increase spots on the on reservation AND update you on camping options
           2) call in soon after the additional reservation is made to secure the spot

    CAMPING <<>>
           The advance team (don't ya just love State Dept terminology? :-) has reserved a multifamily camp site at the
           Ohiopyle state park, which fits 14 people. Cost/person about 7-$11.

           Additional campsites can be reserved at 888-PA-PARKS, and as of this AM, at least 24-30 sites (5 people/site)
           were available for the evening of the 28th, and the cost was $31/site for minimum Sat-Sun 2-day stay. I'm
           happy to help coordinate if we fill up the multifamily site and people would like to share campsites.

           If you don't have camping gear, let me know and I can send the group that has already committed a list of needs
           to figure out what is available for borrowing.

    CAR POOLING
           So far, there are options, so let me know if you might be interested in getting and/or offering a spot in a car.

    If you are interested I would advise trying to get things squared away this week, as it is a popular area. If either rafting tours or camping spots fill up I'll send this group an email to let you know.

    Also, if anyone is interested in staying longer on Sunday, the campsite is available...

    Ya-Shin
