# Journal.2007\_06\_23x --

    mamma


    I would like seeing a president saying much of what you list below.

    But realize he wont.   90+% of the money that we donate to the rest of the world is not given to help them it is given to control them.

    if we wanted to help, most of our money would go where the need was greatest.  Lots to africa, etc.

    But that is not where we send our money.  we send it to Saudia Arabia (a very rich country), to Israel, to Egypt., etc.
    Now why do we do that?  They dont need help, but we do care about how they act in the world.  We want to control that,
    so we pay.  We could care less about how africa acts in the world, so we don't pay.


    It is very ugly.  we give money mostly in order to control our interests in the world.

    So, no president is going to tell the guys that did not support us in IRAQ.  that we are going to stop paying, casue we still want to have leverage with  them.



    So yes I wish we would would stop such stuff.

    But don't think we are the good guys, just helping out countries to don't help us back.


    We are the single remaining super power, and if we say pakistan is allowed to have nukes, then the are.
    if we say iran is not, then they should be bombed.  If we say the IRAQ gov must go (even though we all admit that they had nothing
    to do with 9-11) then they must go.

    And if any country does not agree with us, well they are wrong, and should be punished.


    It is simple:  
    * The US government's position is that we should control the world.
    * We should not have to answer to the UN, we should not have to answer to other countries,
    * and if other countries do not agree with our opinion about which governments should live & die they should be punished.



    My question to you, is what do you think?
    Should the US be allowed to decide which countries governments live/die?
    Should we punish other countries who disagree?
    Should we go to war even when not attacked, because we (without agreement of others) think the world would be better off?

    Its really a serious question.  What are we doing?

    your thoughts?

    -- Dan "that peace-lovin, softie, liberal, son of yours" Oblinger




