
## TODO

- [ ] Get response to Amy Kruse   [[Crunchbase Notes|CB]] 
- [ ] Warm intros from [[@Amy Kruse]] 
	- [ ] Get list of target firms to present to Amy
	- [ ] Get intro version of email written
- [ ] Reach out to [[@Aniket Kumar]] Recruiters [[__TXT__#2022-03-18 Aniket Recruiters|lst]]  
	- [ ] Draft outreach
	- [ ] Schedule calls
- [ ] Reach out to [[@Alia Alaoui]]
	Inbound on linked in... should write to her
### . 
.
## CRM

| ---       | ---                |      |     |
| --------- | ------------------ | ---- | --- |
|           | [[__]]             |      |     |
| S - W5-12 | [[@Emily Wallach]] | BeVC |     |
| W - M4-25 | [[@Melissa Cote]]  | BeVC |     |
|           | [[@Brian Yormak]]  |      |     |
|           | [[@Avidan Ross]]   | BeVC |     |
|           |                    |      |     |



Brian Yormak, Advian Ross (Tessa's contact)


## = DYL Odessy
! Vision spouting, Meeting man, Deal closer
| Time   | Activity                        | Notes                                |
| ------ | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| Year 1 | Ad hoc advising                 | Providing small value to multiple VC |
| Year 2 | Committing to a VC, FT advising |                   |
| Year 3 | Going deep with them            |             |
| Year 4 | Making Partner                  |                                      |
| Year 5 | -spending-5-years-              |                                      |
|        |                                 |                                      |

- High energy @ many meeting about tech
- Selling founders and investors on shared vision of the future


QUESTIONS:
- Do you see my BG as having strong value?  And for whom?
- Gut Check On My Value Prop:  
	- DARPA PM angle
	- Technical Diligence
	- Operational support for AI strategy and execution
	- Develop, Assess & Sell Investment Thesis  (landscaping).  
	- Operate within the AI community as a peer and leader.  
	- Excellent in selling technical vision - 2 founders & LPs.
- My early value prop.


VC ROLE
- SOURCING DEALS:  Events in areas of interest, Meeting other VCs & Angels, taking founder pitches
- BOARDS: Sitting on boards of companies
- HELPING: Helping companies hire
- what I enjoy doing most is supporting and helping companies grow

## = VC QUESTIONS

Selling company; advice on moving into the VC space...
- Machine Learning, PhD researcher by training.
- Managed quarter billion dollar tech portfolio as PM at DARPA.
- Exited 3 companies as a founder.

- I seem poised to own a tech vision & portfolio as part of a VC firm.
  (specifically the larger firms that will have highly specialized & technical funds)
	- I am uniquely qualified if deep understanding of current tech risks & roadmap is key
	- Do you agree?  
		- Seems roadmap is to simply provide value @ firms to prove my mettle 
	- Concrete steps and connections to make

Operators.  Fin.  Credibility.  Been there done that.  How to scale.
Recruiting @ hiring, go to market strategy

Venture investors
find companies that are interesting to you -> find who their 


Questions
- What is the day to day like for a VC or advisor?
- What value might I bring to a VC firm?
- Where specifically might I work?


## === PLAN ===
### --- Read about being a VC


## === BACKGROUND ===
Objective:
- Decide if I want to be a VC, or support a VC as an advisor.
- If I might, then progress down that path





## = REF
- [VC Roles](https://www.huntclub.com/blog/what-is-a-venture-partner-an-overview),   Venture Partner
- [A day in the life of a VC partner](https://pitchbook.com/news/articles/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-vc-partner),       
-  [Day in the life of a ...](https://pitchbook.com/news/search?tags=day-in-the-life&refType=NA)  
- 
- [How much does a VC partner earn?](https://www.quora.com/How-much-does-a-VC-partner-earn)  
  [Searches](Searches.md)
 [[Crunchbase Notes|Crunchbase]] 
 [[Searches|Searches]]  [[TXT|OR]] 

# # MEETINGS
### m2022-04-06  Recruiter topics

Primary Objective
1. My primary value proposition.
	- Domain Expertise, Carrying a domain vision, rolodex/investors
2. What is a plausible trajectory for me entering into this new space.


 
 