# Letters.0707mom --

    Charlie, Mom, Mary, Schrep 
    Tanhsi 
    (BCC Many others?) 
     
     
    I am hitting my email only sporadically since I am all over the country. 
    I have been lax in keeping up everyone so here is an email attempt. 
    I have spent the better part of a four hour flight writing it, so feel free 
    to skip it (particularly the long section on craps) if you don't have the energy. 
     
     
    On Monday I went to Vegas for the IC-AI conference.  I was the chair of 
    a session there.  It went smoothly, not that much for me to do.  I announce 
    each person, time them, and tell them when its time for them to shut up. 
     
    The conference itself was not that interesting.  The talks were just very far 
    from my areas of interest.  (Our session was good, but it was just a small 
    part of the whole.)  It did do some learning however.  I was staying in the  
    Monte Carlo (one of the large hotel/casinos on the new Strip).  They had 
    a "free" class on playing Craps.  I decided to show up and see what there 
    was to see.  Up to this point I have not been tempted to even put a  
    quarter in a slot.  nothing. 
     
    DAN'S VERY LONG CRAPS PRIMER 
     
    Well the class was quite informative.  We learned the rules and the odds 
    on the best craps plays.  Numbers, numbers!!  It was over an our of 
    basic probability.  I'm not sure how many of my fellow classmates were 
    keeping up, but he was giving us the everything!  It turns out that many  
    of the bets in craps are "fair odds" meaning that the return is exactly  
    even with the probability of making the play.  Example: taking odds 
    on an eight return 6 for 5, because the probability of hitting that eight 
    before crapsing out with a seven is exactly 5 to 6.  (six combinations 
    for a 7 and five for an 8). 
     
    Of course vegas wants its $$.  In order to make an even odds bet  
    you always have to make a house advantage bet.  In the example 
    above, you had to make a "line bet" before you could take odds on 
    the eight.  That line bet has a house advantange of 1.4%.  This means 
    that if you took 1,000 line bets, the house would win 507 and you 
    would win 493.  Not a terrible house advantage.  And better yet, 
    a small line bet lets you play large even-odds bets.  There are alot 
    of other bets you can make at the table.  Many of them make alot 
    more $$ for the house. 
     
    Hmmmm.  Well during the class, I didn't really have time to think about 
    all of this, but they did give us "funny money" to play with, just to get 
    the idea.  Later they set up a 'cheap' $2 minimum bet table, so we 
    could practise loosing money prior to playing with the big boys. 
    This was fun.  Nobody was taking things too seriously. 
    Still they were serious.  When rolling the dice, you 
    (1) must pick them up with one hand. 
    (2) you cannot transfer them to the other hand to throw them. 
    (3) you cannot pull them back away from the plane vertically extending up from the table 
    (4) you cannot rub them together  
    (5) you must throw them hard enough to bounce off the far wall, but not hard 
    enough to have them bounce out on the wood rim (this is called getting a woodie) 
    About a dozen people are around the pit gambling on the rolls has they are 
    happening.  The roller does not stop for your bets, you are tossing chips between 
    his rolls, and calling your bets as you do.   
    They get particularly cranky if you 
    (1) throw $$ as the dice are rolling, or 
    (2) are not clear on exactly what you are betting on 
    In order to make sure that this chaos does not result is loss for the house, they 
    have 5 guys for each table, a rake who returns the die to the thrower.  Two payers 
    who handle payout on each side of the table, the bank, and the supervisor. 
    (plus many many caneras). 
     
    Ok so they *are* serious, but it is definitely part of the fun. 
     
    So I put down $100 on this $2 dollar minimum game.  after about 1 1/2 hours I walked 
    away with $250.  That was even more fun. 
     
    That night, I did a little pencil and paper action, and figured if I bet the smallest line bet 
    and take the max odds after that, I am only loosing about 7 cents for each nickel ($5) 
    line bet.  Not bad since that $5 line bet can support upto $125 of even odds betting. 
    That is alot of $$.  Well that works out to about $5 to $10/hour of lost money depending on 
    how vigorously you are making fresh line bets.  (I would have to be dropping money on most  
    die throws to "attain" a $10/hr loss rate.) 
     
    Of course saying that your AVERAGE loss rate is $10/hr given that you can easily have  
    hundreds on the table won or lost on a single roll is a bit like saying that the average  
    height of the ocean during a typhoon is dropping because of evaporation.  Maybe it is, 
    but the instantaneous swings are far larger. 
     
    But that is what I want right?  Min loss, max varience. 
     
    The next day I decide to blow $200 on the craps table.  45 min later I walk about with almost $1000!!! 
    Ok now this is *really* getting to be an enjoyable game.  Of course I keep telling myself 
    now I have to loose my entire $200 dollars on 5 future occasions before this will happen again. 
    That's ok, this was fun.  Plus people are starting to ask betting advice, and most people really have no 
    idea what the odds really are on the bets they are making.  Of course they would go out of 
    buisness if they were only getting $5-10 for each gambler.  There is no worry there.  About 
    25% of the gamblers were minimizing loss efficiently, the remaining 75% were would play 
    very inefficient bets for about an hour and walk away w. losses. 
     
    I should just quit $750 up right?  Well now there is a noticeable gravity in the room toward that 
    craps table.  Still I have a conference to attend right?  I am chairing a session is tomorrow & I have slides to 
    do... The session is of no particular note.   Alright, I two hours to kill before leaving Las Vegas I will just blow  
    another $200 which will still leave me over $500 in the black. 
     
    I walk away again after 45 min with just over $900 dollars.  The tables are getting to  
    know me, people are asking me how they should be betting, people are simply following 
    my bets as if this is going to change their odds!!!   If I did not *firmly* believe in the laws 
    of basic probability, I would quite my job, and simply not get back on that plane. 
     
    That was Vegas. 
     
     
     
    Wednesday night at 2:30am I arrive in NYC to host this big deal who is visiting IBM. 
    I pride myself on efficiency, but this guy was amazing.  He arrived by limo from Philly 
    so he could work on the way.  Between each half hour meeting that I had arranged  
    for him, he would grill me on the perspective he should have for his next meeting, and 
    then he would sync by cell phone w. people at his institute, making decisions arranging 
    projects etc.  I gave him a 20 min gap in his schedule, he used it to do a phone interview 
    with CNN!   He's been on TV most of this week because of the Human Genome Project 
    (he is a bio ethics guy).  Most impressively, he is *not* breaking a sweat, or tense at all. 
    He has two kids, and never works on the weekends.   
     
    Friday 6am I am on my way to Standford CA for the ICML (Machine Learning) conference.  Ricardo and I have 
    a paper and we are Chairing a workshop.  both went great.  This is the first ICML I have attended since  
    finishing school.  I really missed it.  The same crowd is still there, and I had a great time. 
    Each night they had a long poster session, and lots of beer/wine.  This is what really  
    made the conference.  Geeks are so much more palatable after a few beers.  :-) 
    Actually there were a surprising number of cuties at the conference, most were grad students. 
    I guess ML is becoming mainstream.  (Yoshiko: Of course I was good boy!  :-) 
     
    After the conference I stayed in San Ramon at Dave and Nina's house.  Nina (at HP), Lenny (faculty at Illinois) &  
    I have been working endlessly (1.5 years) on a paper.  I have never written a hard core theory paper before, so I am learning  
    alot from Nina.  We did two days of non stop work on the 3rd and 5th.  (We played Rebel Assult most of the 4th. 
    We bought game for their Sony Play station while here.)  Dave has the dexterity that geeky Dan and Nina lack. 
    Still it was much more fun than the lame fireworks put on by the city of San Ramon. 
     
    Now I am on my way home.  My car has finally died, really died.  The cost of fixing it is much greater than its worth. 
    Lydia is an IBMer who live close in NYC, but catching rides is a pain.  I guess getting a replacement is my task for  
    the weekend. 
     
    Cheers,  
    Dan 
     
     
