# NW.030307a --


    Ming-Yang, 

    I am a member of the Research Staff at IBM's Watson Laboratory.  I have been recently nominated
    as "Campus Relationship Manager" for Northwestern University.  
    IBM appoints such a representative for a relatively small number of universities based on the
    strength and diversity of those Universities.  Northwestern is one of these Universities.
    My role is to promote collaboration between IBM and Northwestern and more specifically between
    IBM Research and Northwestern.  This includes recruitment of graduates from Northwestern, grant
    programs for students, summer programs for students, as well as faculty and university grants.

    I was quite happy to be nominated for this position since I was also recruited into IBM by just such a 
    representative.  It also gives me a chance to visit Illinois (I did my graduate work at University of Illinois).
    I was hoping to make a visit to Northwestern toward the end of March, perhaps the 27 and 28 though those
    dates are quite flexible.

    My goal is to get acquainted with your program at Northwestern as well as some of the Faculty and
    students there.  As a means of introduction I would be happy to present a technical talk on my research
    if that would be of interest.  Before arriving I am going to try and determine the people and groups
    that I should attempt to meet with during my first visit.  For example, an active women in engineering
    group might be such a group.  It would be wonderful if I were able identify a relatively small
    set of promising students to also chat with during my visit.  They need not be near graduation, I had
    chats with Se June Hong at U. Illinois for four years during my graduate studies.

    Let me know what your thoughts are on the best time for me to Visit.


    Thank you for your time,
    Dan Oblinger
