# 999idea.Design --

     <<>>     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    THE ASSOCIATOR (V1.0) 
    - Accepts a stream of tuple sets, and 
      remembers patterns seen previously. 
     
     
    GENERALIZATION 
    - A Grouping of tokens based on their role in a recurring relationship 
    - A Pattern with fewer constraints 
     
     
    A PROCEDURE 
    - Graph of internal contexts, where each context is has an associated 
      search state. 
     
    AN ACTIVE CONTROL CONTEXT -- A SEARCH STATE 
    - A search control strategy (controled by internal context) 
    - Controls which associatations are noticed 
     
     
    ACTIVATION STATE (SEARCH STATE) 
    - State of activivation for all nodes 
     
     
    THINKING 
    - Following associations (controlled by the search state) 
     
     
    ACTIONS 
    - Outputs (motor control) 
     
    FEEDBACK 
    - Control over training??? 
    - Positive reinfore of search that produce novel connections or understanding 
      CONNECTIONS previously seen tokens (which are combos of tokens) 
      UNDERSTANDING -- state achieved by subconscious procedure that attempts 
      to map input graph into memory 
     
     
    <<>> 
    MODELING 
    - An external entity generates a tuple stream. 
    - A model attempts to mimic the association behavior generated by stream. 
    - Attepts to predict important concepts 
    - Both world model (projection) and thinking model. (reflection) 
     
    <<>> 
    REFLECTION 
    - System can see its thinking 
    - It sees the active control contexts 
    - It sees it status 
     
    - STATUS.  Concept that expresses some aspect of the status of thinking: 
      Productive,Unproductive,Novel,Important 
     
     
    <<>> 
    DESIRES 
     
    - Hardwired objectives expressed in model of world, in thinking status 
     
    - Adopted objectives ???? 
     
    - IMPORTANCE.  Association with a concept that controls thinking. 
     
     
    <<>> 
    >>> HOW DO WE LEARN IN THIS SYSTEM? 
    - By demonstration of the procedure 
     
     
    <<>> 
    >>> HOW DO WE CAPTURE AND REASON ABOUT RELATIONS? (FIRST ORDER) 
    - Tuple reasoner  (Positional set reasoner) 
     
     
     
    Changing thinking behavior under contrl of reflection 
     
