# PBC.04-PBC00 --

    WIN 
     
    * Deploy an email-based human skill mining application as part of the Planet  
      Blue project. 
     
    * Experimentally explore the relationship between electronic communications 
      and human skill categories. 
     
    * Help to create and run the AI PIC 
     
    * If performance of the skill mining system is appropriate for  
      deployment within IGS, I will present initial results of our 
      system to the Human Resources department managing skills data. 
     
     
    EXECUTE 
     
    * Implement, integrate, and deploy a large number of data processing modules 
      including: word stemming, context-sensitive text tokenization,  
      induction algorithms, attachment reader, rule application engine, 
      notes interface, and a number of GUIs including profile viewing, 
      editing, administrator's support for user list, skill lists, rule 
      editing, and feature lists. 
     
    * Experimental testing of skill inference will start with the following: 
      * Each of the data sources will be analyzed as independent  
        determiners of skill, and will be tested in both linear and non-linear 
        combinations. 
      * Each feature type will be tested with several forms of normalization 
        that weight number of occurrences, number of documents occurred in 
        in various combination with background normalization. 
      * Basic word counts will also be specialized by both placement and document 
        type contexts: e.g. subject/body, MassMail/Point2Point, P2P reply, etc. 
        Specificity in this dimension will be traded off against scarcity of 
        available training data. 
      * Depending on initial analysis of the domain structure we will test 
        the utility of other data sources.  Possibilities include: word-net 
        databases.   
     
    * Other Planet-Blue Related Responsibilities 
      * Design parts of infrastructure and GUIs for people organizations. 
      * Manage Contractor's contribution to the Org 2 People component. 
     
    TEAM 
     
    * Collaborated with four members of the SAS organization to create the AI PIC 
      and have since contributed to the PIC in a number of ways including: 
      * Built a discussion database for the area 
      * Organized the AIPIC schedule 
      * Hosted AI related visitors (Pat Langley) 
     
    * Ricardo Vilalta and I plan to submit a paper to the International 
      Conference on Machine Learning.  (This conference is the primary 
      conference for ML research; as such it is rigorously reviewed.)   
     
    * I will co-chair the Inductive Learning paper track at this year's 
      International Conference on Artificial Intelligence.  (This is a 
      relative new conference associated with an established conference 
      PDPTA.) 
     
     
    Cross-Organizational Collaborations 
    * David Johnson's group using their classifier systems. 
      (Write generic learning algorithm interface.) 
    * IRIS on possible use/contribution to Raven. 
    * HR on use of skill mining for groups within IGS. 
    * Jon Prager on use of textrac for Encyclopedia Britannica. 
    * Ricardo Vilalta on publications, and conference organization 
    * Many in Watson on the AI PIC. 
     
