# Dream\_2007\_08\_20 --

    -----------

    - My brother, cousin ronny, myself, and dad, were working for days.  On these cables hoisting each
      other up and down these vertical surfaces.

    - We worked in teams, My father, was always pulling the ropes for the rest of us.  

    - We would joke back and forth.  Sometimes I would may the most clever comments, but all were
      a joy to listen to.

    - When I got a chance I would glide along the surface, it was important tohave  experiences 
      as we moved thru this life.

    - At end of dream, I was talking to my father, and said "you have never slid along the surface, have you?"

    - He said that he had... "remember during the day, I work with the Japanese team, and they take   
      turns in everything"

    - Then he said, "remember, I am writing a book of my experiences, with that culture"

    - I realized then, that *we* had never offered him a turn, I realized that his book would tell
      that he only has a chance to live through them, and he was gently warning what it would say.

    - I was sad that we were so self absorbed and unseeing.


    -------
    Friends w. girl
    then friends with a 'cool' boy; he steals girl
    - we remain friends
    - I loose touch with boy, then the girl
    - he comes back; weird work (hot day) tie off; I get the feeling this is the way he has been living
    - she leaves; he shows me a cool picnic basket.  says lets go for a walk

    - he is at the end of his life; not old, just nothing more will happen
    - he says, "I just thought those I were with would tell me when to let go"

    - There was pain, because I realize even the cool guy had let is life slide by.

    - Speaking as a child he said:  I was a cross-eyed child then, just a lazy eye
      (meaning that it was never completely fixed.)  dont know what this ending means.
