# Fish\_For\_Life --


    Book is stories about people applying following key points as a perspective on
    life, and to particular troubling social interactions.

    (1) PLAY -- Fun and light heartedness
    (2) MAKE THEIR DAY -- a focus on engaging others in ways that life their spirits
    (3) BE THERE -- living in the present moment and giving others our full attention
    (4) CHOOSE YOU ATTITUDE -- understanding that whatever attitude you are carrying with
        you right now, is the one you are choosing.


    PLAY 
    - How might I be an instrument of lightheartedness?
    - Do I have a smile in my heart that is heard in my voice?
    - Do I explore all the ways I could bring fun to a task that is not ususally fun?
    - Am I choosing playfulness?


    MAKE THEIR DAY
    - Whose day will I make today?
    - How might I live my life today so as to be an inspiration to others?
    - Have I treated myself to the good feelings generated by serving another?
    - Am I open to having someone make my day?


    BE THERE
    - Am I listening to family and friends with the single purpose of heraing what 
      they have to say?
    - Do I give the gift of rapt attention freely?
    - Do we have a protocol for dealing with interruptions like the phone during a
      family meal?
    - Have I reminded myself today of how good it feels to be listened to?


    CHOOSE YOUR ATTITUDE
    - What are the attitudes I am choosing right now?
    - Do any of my current attitudes need to be replaced or will I stay with what I have?
    - What attitudes do I want in my life more often?
    - What attitudes do I want to avoid?
    - Am I aware that feelings can't be controlled and may show up at anytime without
      warning, but that attitudes can be chosen?
    - Am I aware that sometimes the choice of an attitude can influence how I feel
      in the future?


    CREATING ONES OWN "IT"
    - In a relationship it helps to explicitly state "a vision of our life together"


    - 
