# ICDM\_2004 --

    The Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining
    Web:   <<>>     (GOTO PC-MEMBER)
    User:  Dan Oblinger   (about 3/4 down the list which is *not* in alphabetical order!)
    Pass:  r4824lDg

            

    PAPERS
    1* 388   Mark
    2* 415   *  -- accept short
    3 463   XXX -- Paper not evaluated?
    4* 504   *  -- weak reject
    5* 506   Mark -- Done.
    6 562   Ilena
    7 582   *
    8* 620   Mark
    9 625   Ilena


    # 415
    1 Relevance?        Y Y/N    (areas)
    2 Inovative?        3 5y-0n
    3 Technical Q       3 5h-0low
    4 Presentation?     4 5h-0low
    5 Interest 2 ICDM?  3 y-0n
    6 Confidence?       1? 2hi-0low
    7 Overall?          3 5accept-2weakreject-0hopeless
    8 Comments:

    Comments on the scores:  technical quality would have been higher if most relevant empirical analyses were performed.


    Although some work has been done using clustering as a means of constructing a Markov
    Model, this work explores the less-tried area of building HMMs via a clustering (rather than maximum likelihood approach).
    It results are interesting as it provides further data regarding this alternative approach.  The specifics of the
    EMMincrement and EMMdecrement in particular are novel to this paper.

    The primary shortcoming of this paper is the lack of any relevant comparison of these novel features to existing
    alternatives in the literature.  Is the performance of this system identical to that of Goldberg and Mataric's 
    AMM given a single training set and single test set?  It is not clear if the authors know this, but we as readers
    do not.  More importantly, this approach uses clustering as a means of building the HMM rather than maximum-likelihood
    a far more commonly used approach.  Rather than comparing to some neural net model of this problem, a far more
    important comparison would be to a traditional HMM.  I recognize the unfairness of this comparison, as it would 
    require explicit specification of the 'k' nodes required by the HMM.  But there are methods for estimating this parameter.
    Moreover I would be satisfied with a result that showed this approach did not suffer too much for the
    efficiency gains of clustering and flexibility of online learning.  As it stands we really have no basis for
    comparing this work to its most obvious analog in the existing literature.

    Also the authors' discussion regarding the EMMdecrement operation seemed to miss important considerations.
    In this work this step was under manual control, and its usage was directed at the conservation of system resources.
    Yet such an operation will also have impact on the generalization behavior of the model.  The authors suggest that 
    a LRU or LFU techniques might be applied to control this operation.  Such a suggestion is quite interesting as it 
    is both computationally efficient and intuitive.  Still the ultimate proof for all of these choices is the predictive
    performance of the model generated, and the computational resources required deriving this model.
    Future presentations of this work should begin with these comparisons.  Analysis of alternative choices for the clustering
    algorithms etc. are interesting but are secondary to an understanding of the performance of any of those choices
    against existing approaches.

    Despite these shortcomings there are several aspects of the work which together support its publication: the novelty of the work, 
    the anytime nature of the algorithm, and the intuitive appeal of the clustering, increment, decrement approach.



    Several more detailed considerations about the paper:

    - The figures at the end of the paper suggest a wealth of interesting information, but they are poorly presented.
    the axes on many of the figures cannot be read.  And the meanings of several (even if we had the axes listed) are 
    still unclear.  Just a well chosen sentence or two in the text can rectify this.

    - The authors describe the problem of real world processes described by a MC that varies over time.
    I believe in this problem, but I do not see that the examples provided are a good demonstration of that
    phenomenon.  the time scales on the data are such that I would not expect the model to vary over time.
    And perhaps I did not understand the figures, but I did not see evidence of a model that varied over time.
    Such an example (even if one had to resort to synthetic data) is expected.



    #504

    1 Relevance?       n Y/N    (areas)
    2 Inovative?       ? 5y-0n
    3 Technical Q      4 5h-0low
    4 Presentation?    4 5h-0low
    5 Interest 2 ICDM? 0 3y-0n
    6 Confidence?      2 2hi-0low
    7 Overall?         1 5accept-2weakreject-0hopeless
    8 Comments:


    This paper is well written and carefully presented.  Further the work presented seems to be of sufficient quality.
    My reason for rejecting this paper is simply its subject matter.  The work presents a hardware solution to a
    particular feature re-representation problem.  The authors note that this solution obviates the need for the 
    a software-base transformation of the features.  This tradeoff makes sense given the computational cost of that
    software based approach, but the hardware based approach really falls out of the scope of the ICDM conference.

    I believe the overwhelming majority of Data Mining researchers reading ICDM will not be in a position to 
    appreciate or apply the work described here.  Even describing this as a data mining problem is at best
    unconventional.  I believe this work should be reported elsewhere.




    1 Relevance?       y Y/N    (areas)
    2 Inovative?       2 5y-0n
    3 Technical Q      2 5h-0low
    4 Presentation?    4 5h-0low
    5 Interest 2 ICDM? 5 3y-0n
    6 Confidence?      2 2hi-0low
    7 Overall?         3 5accept-2weakreject-0hopeless
    8 Comments:

    Synthesis papers like this paper are quite important for an interdisciplinary field like data mining.
    It assists in the transferring of approaches well studied in one area to related areas, and it 
    provides a method for understanding the commonalities between a great many different areas.

    That said, I don't believe this work lives up to those objectives.  It describes a number of areas
    relevant to data-mining, and then presents an information systems perspective on the problem.
    But it does not tie the original areas to this IS perspective, and it is unclear how the IS 
    perspective clarifies or guides the DM researcher.  I will discuss the sections of the paper
    in more detail below.

    The review section of the paper was the most informative section for me.  The authors laid out
    central ideas and approaches from a number of different areas: statistics, compression, philosophy,
    etc.  I enjoyed this section because I already knew the material, but it painted each section 
    in very broad terms.  Still if I were not already familiar with an area, it seems that the
    section describing that area would have little meaning.  Describing the Bayesian approach as
    one that is "based on the principle of maximum posterior probability."  Is going to either makes
    sense if you already know Bayesian statistics, and is meaningless as a standalone sentence otherwise.
    I understand the authors could do little else in the space provided, but it makes me question
    the ultimate utility of this section, since it can only remind you of what you already know.
    Perhaps that is the purpose of this section, and perhaps that suffices.
    (Clearly this section would have great benefit and importance if it were expounded in a longer publication.)

    Section 2.5 is the synthesis section.  I expected that a section like this one would be the primary 
    contribution of this work.  It would express observed relations between the areas, when they were 
    best applied, or how they complemented each other, etc.  What is listed here is less than that.
    It is noted that compression and constructive induction "have relatively strong analytical backgrounds."
    for example.  This provides little in the way of synthesis.


    The Framework itself is also a contribution of the paper.  It is a way to understand the larger problem
    of data mining and how these earlier approaches fit into a coherent whole.  But again I felt the 
    IS model was lacking.  What insights does it bring to the DM problem?  I could not answer this question.
    I don't have a strong understanding of how the relevant parts from each of the surveyed domains fit
    into the process of generating artefacts.  It seems simply like a new vocabulary from IS is being overplayed
    onto the DM problem.  But what insights to we gain in this process?

    One novel contribution of the framework is the association of terms like "data" "attributes" "knowledge" and "wisdom"
    with who what why questions about the data (listed in Fig 4).  But how do these distinctions inform our understanding
    of the data mining problem, and its relation to the bodies of work listed earlier.  This is not discussed.  By
    defining terms in this way we are able to see Data Mining as a process for seeking wisdom.  But this seems
    mere word games.  Where is the value in that?

    The adaptation of Knowledge Management process and the discussion of the meta-knowledge life cycle 
    do make sense as a model of the DM-process, but I feel they are simply applying understood IS
    frameworks to the DM problem, but in a way that is not very specialized to the DM problem in particular.
    Perhaps the contribution here is to simply make the DM community more aware of how these IS frameworks
    apply to the work they are doing.  I just question the ultimate value of the knowledge.

    I have listed this as a weak reject, because I do not see enough benefits from the framework
    as presented to support its publication.  That said, I do believe the synthesis work like this
    is critical for the field.  If other reviewers feel the work merits publication, I will not argue
    against it.


























    Dear Dan,

    Thank you again for agreeing to serve on the Program Committee of the
    ICDM-2004 conference. We have received 452 paper submissions. While 
    this is a fairly large number, we had formed our Program Committee with
    the expectation that there would be more than 400 submissions. As a 
    result, we hope to be able to keep the number of papers assigned to you 
    at a reasonable level. 

    We are inviting you to select your reviewing preferences by June 7. 
    Sorry for such a short notice, but we are operating under a very tight
    schedule, and we need to begin the paper assignment process on June 8 in
    order to start the reviewing process on June 11.

    To select your reviewing preferences, please, click on the following URL:
    <<>> Under "Paper 
    Management" please click on the PC Member option.

    Your password is: r4824lDg

    When you log onto the Cyberchair, please do the following:

    1. Verify/update your contact information and affiliation.

    2. Change your password.

    3. Enter your preferences for papers by subject areas by selecting the
    "Choose Preferred Papers" option and entering your subject area preferences 
    in the blue table.

    4. Enter your preferences for the specific papers by scrolling down the 
    Choose Preferred Papers page. Please select somewhere between 15 and 20 
    papers that you would most like to review. We will try our best to assign 
    to you a reasonable subset of the papers that you selected to ensure that 
    you will review the papers that you feel most qualified and most interested 
    to review. You can specify as many preferences as you would like as long as 
    the total number does not exceed 20 papers.

    5. When you select the papers, please make sure that there is no conflict
    of interest.

    The paper selection process should be completed by 11pm EST on June 7.
    If you do not select the papers by that date, you are likely to get
    the papers that no one else wanted to review. So, please, make the paper
    selection at your earliest convenience but no later than the evening of
    June 7.

    We will try our best and complete the paper assignments by June 11 so that
    you can start your paper reviews on that day. We will let you know by
    e-mail when the paper assignments are done.

    Thanks again,
    Katharina and Rajeev
    ICDM-2004 Program Chairs


