# Mate\_2007\_02\_19 --

    m

    conversation w. me
    dinner -- salon

    power/desirabilty balance

    The bare truth of it:  
      I feel that I can do quite well, 
      and I feel those I have dated have not matched me in overall desirability.
      - Not that I am a brad pitt, but once people get to know me, there is 
        alot that is desired, for the right person.

    - I feel I have desirable qualities
    - I feel I have energy/interest/etc. to bring to a relationship, 
      and I have felt that those I have dated don't match me in these qualities.

    - I do feel such a match is possible, but wonder if I am too late, 
      or that it is too unlikely.  There are (usually yonger) women that occasionally
      catch my eye, but there are very few over my lifetime, that I have thought
      wow that is someone I could possibly marry.  Of both friends and partners there
      have usually been something that seemed less than acceptable.
      Still I feel that the possiblity exists.


    - I recognize there are many people I could be with, but I also realize some
      of my criterion are limiting:
      - Many fewer single people are within my age range 30-38, and those that
        are sometimes have issues limiting marriage.


    -------
    The ways forward:
    (1) Breakup and open yourself to a few years of singledom.
    (2) Recognize that your desires in a mate are misguided, and that you are 
        with a mate of great value
    (3) Recognize that your chances of find a match that fits your expectations is slim,
        and quit while you are ahead.
    (4) Continue in this relationship until you get the clarity to make one of the choices above.

     4 is the wrong option.
     2 has not happened yet, how can I make it?  Can I?
     3 




     3 is probably the wrong option.
     1 
    (2) 
      - I am attracted to petite and asian, and this is 1-2% of the population.
      - The sort of effervesent types that attract me, attract others, they even less 
        likely to be available later in life.

