# App.Neubold-note --

    THE PROPOSAL:Our object is to apply conventional learning<<>>mining tools to thespecific problem of inferring human skill sets automatically fromemail traffic.  We are very flexible on the tools that we will buildupon, and we are flexible on the specific application which will inturn display and utilize this data.  Our interest is understanding howaspects unique to e-mail (like sender and recipient) can be leveragefor the particular task of skill inference as opposed to more genericdocument classification tasks.  We want to uncover theserelationships, and we want to incorporate them into a deployedproduct.OUR BENEFIT:Our goal is to do Machine Learning <<>> Text Mining research in a way thathas the highest possible impact for IBM.  This means we should apply ourexpertise to the product with widest deployment, in this case to a Lotusproduct.YOUR BENEFIT:The benefits of collaboration must clearly outweigh the cost of thatcollaboration.  In order to ensure that this is the case we are more than willing to build upon the tools that are being developed as part of the Yoda/Raven project.  We also expect to take requirements fromExpertise Locator or other components of the larger system that willutilized the data gleened from e-mail content.  In short, we expectthat anything we build will be constructed from inception to fit withinthe Yoda/Raven framework.MY QUALIFICATIONS AND BACKGROUND:My doctorate is in Machine Learning, I have over ten years experience inthe area.  Since joining IBM a year and a half ago I have become familiaror worked with a number of groups within IBM research that are active intext mining.  These include: Alan Marwick's knowledge managment group,David Johnson's text mining group, Chid Apte's machine learning group, andByron Dom's internet learning group.  I do not have software components of my own, so my interest here is to identify and leverage any components bothinside and outside of research that can best be used to address the skill's identification problem.A FINAL NOTEThe proposal that follows is my attempt at being concrete.  We have nostrong stake in the particular design decisions outlined there.  Ourgoal is to apply our expertise in Machine Learning and Text Mining toe-mail skills identification.  Any specifics beyond that are subjectto revision as needed.  My objective is to first establish that ourcontinuted contact is mutually beneficial.  The specific directiontaken in my subsequent work can be resolved at a later time. 
     
