# DARPA.Journal.2007\_04\_16 --

    LETTER TO IRD.



    This weekend was a fire drill for me.  I needed to collate responses from multiple teams
    in order to get resonses back to Dr. Tether.  At the same time I organized a workshop 
    today in California, and so much of emailing/editing of slides activity is happening 
    at airports, on the street, etc.  Four or five times over this period I was able to 
    connect reliably to the internet, yet I was not able to immediately connect to the
    DARPA net.  Each time took 10-20 minutes to connect, and once I simply could not
    connect, even with help from Action@DARPA.  I know that I am only one PM, that the 
    other PM's seem to find the level of service acceptable, and I don't want to be a 
    squeaky wheel.

    But I just can't be without DARPA email access.  
    Especially when I have no problem accessing my Gmail account!!

    Well over a month ago (is it two months now?) we agreed, that within a month I would have:
    (1) *external* web access to MS outlook.
    (2) Optimization of my VPN timeouts so it would work better with the verizon card, and
    (3) a highspeed hard drive for my laptop.

    I know a month is not going to happen now.  But what is the date I can count on?
    I understand if it has just turned out to be too costly to develop a solution 
    for me for this problem, but please tell me so!  My plan before was to simply set
    up an external email address, and start telling people to use that as my work address.


    Do let me know.

    Thanks much!
    -dan



     want is the date with the really is
    goin
