# Journal.2006\_07\_04a --

    BAA 02-21  Massively muli-agent brain.


      <<>>


    This work is interdiciplinary in it nature.  It attempts to bring ideas from outside the area
    of machine learning to bear on central problems for the ML field.  Because of the potnetial for
    transformative break throughs in interdiciplnary work, and because of its inherent difficulty, 
    I belive such work should not be held to the same standards as work within a single discipline.


    QUESTIONS FOR AN ABSTRACT:
    - Scientific Merit?

    This proposal attacks questions central to the field of Machine Learning (e.g. how to learn new representations) but does so from an agent-based perspective. Because the proposal addresses the question of an "artificial representation generating system" It must build from, or at least explain its contribution beyond the 25 years of work in related fields.  Neither this proposal, nor my scanning of the related web pages seems to do address this.

    The proposal describes many aspects of the system but provides no basis for evaluating whether such a system would actually have those properties.  For example, a central claim of the proposal is that the system is scalable, but there is not one sentence in the proposal that explains how we know that this system would be scalable, or even what dimensions of the system are scalable.


    - Innovative Technical Solution?

    This proposal does not clearly articulate what its core technical innovations are.  It provides a very high-level description of a whole system, but each of the components in that system are very much like those currently employed in thousands of AI systems today.

    The author's need to identify specific *technical* innovations that are contained in this proposal that are not in current use.  Most of the terms in the proposal could be used to describe parts of systems today,   (e.g. multi-agent paradigm with morphological control, aspectual agent, etc.)

    Indeed once the authors focus on specific innovations, then it will be possible to express those innovations with sufficient detail to convey the innovation.  I read with great expectation part three to understand what representations were being learned.  I was disappointed that even this details section was so high level, that one could not answer that question.

    If the authors believe that they are not advancing the science in any of these component technologies, then they should say that, but then they must explain (at a technical level) why the organization they are proposing has properties that other composite systems today do not have.  In short the paper needs to clearly articulate innovation at some level, and justify the claim that this innovation is truly an advancement with respect to the state of the art across the relevant technical disciplines.

    - DARPA Relevance?

    The system described is relevant to DARPA.

    - Researcher's Capabilities/Experience?

    It seems that the authors have expertise in multi-agent systems, but it seems they might be lacking experience in learning technologies, and for this proposal that is quite important.

    - Capability to tech transfer?

    The system is not described in sufficient detail to determine this.

    - Cost Realism?

    The exact output of this program is too il-defined to answer this question.
    It is realistic that they could build something given the funds, but what would constitute a successful product is not articulated.

    FINAL DECISION

    Rejected.


    scalable?

    A primary concern is that the proposal hinges on adgances in machine learning but 
    does not 


    Object 5b. for example to produce original new representations is an exceedingly 
    difficult (but important goal).  Multiple communities have been studying this
    problem for at least the last 15 years.  I do not see this work building on
    or learning from 
