# Journal.2007\_06\_23l --

    zzzzzzzzzzzzzz




    Pietro,

    I guess I expected that it would be obvious to both of you, but I should have sent an email explicitly.

    Yes, of course, the obvious answer is that we have a dedicated office coordinator.  I am sure it is obvious to Carolyn too.

    What is equally obvious is that I cannot afford to have Bob Linn, Carolyn, and a dedicated coordinator.  And Carolyn's commitments keep her from being a full time coordinator.

    Carolyn has worked hard for me, and I don't like dumping her on the street, though she is senior here, so I bet she will have other places to go.

    I did speak with Wendy about it last week, and of course 



    -----------------
    Dan,

    You wrote:  "Everyone is doing there job here, it is just that this group has no one who is watching all the balls, and I am just too taxed to be that person."

    I feel your pain.  Have you considered hiring a ***dedicated*** Office Coordinator?  Here is a position description for one (to which I'm sure you can add):

    The Office Coordinator is responsible for scheduling and tracking support for the activities of the Program Manager and his office.

    * Responsibility for overall schedule of office activities, including projects, briefings, and workshops.
    * Keep track of project milestones, ensuring that office staff are apprised of approaching deadlines.
    * Work with office staff to set interim milestones to safeguard against "crunch" periods.

    If you are interested in finding someone like this, please let me know and I will pursue it.

    Best,
    Pietro
