# Journal.2007\_03\_20 --

    Computing

    ------------------
       Driving Decision Dominance
          justify  'Asymetric & Urban warfare requires quantum leap in Decision Dominance'

    -> Lang         --  Understanding natural languages
    -> Cog          --  Reason at the human level
    -> Learning     --  acquiring deep reasoning K for relevant problems:  PAL, Learning by reading, Integrated Learning, Bootstrap Learning, Transfer Learning
    -> Sean's Cog   --  What is going to happen if ...  cultural understanding

    ------------------



    INTRO
    * From its beginning, DARPA drove computing, and IPTO has been at the center of this revolution.
    * In the early days the problems to be solved it were ...  (balistics tables, and moon shot, ...)


    * Today We believe computing holds the keys to a number of fundamental problems, made urgent by today's 
      circumstance.  
    * Again is at the center of this thrust; IPTO is focused on pushing the most basic capabilities of computing to meet these
      needs.  

    Here are some of the ways that fundamental advances in computing could enable 
    different/effective solutions to problems that stand as pressing and unaddressed today.


    (COG/LEARNING)
    The First:  Asymetric and Urban warfare.
    We are unmatched in traditional warfare, where the number of enemy groups is hundreds or thousands
    but not millions.  And where a person in a tank is a combatant, and a person in a car is not.

    The complexity of asymetric and urban warfare completely overwhelms traditional approaches to 
    many problems:  keeping track of where the enemy is, identifing who the enemy is, etc. is many orders of magnitude
    more complex than tracking a tradition enemy force.

    Fundamental advances in computing will enable the massive numbrer of rich discriminations needed in
    this much more complex environment.



    (HPCS)
    Second:  Inexorable march of moore's law, provide opportunities to attack fundamental problems (like protein folding) that
    were out of range before.  



    (LANGUAGE)
    Third:  the internet & darpa networks have revolutionize communication of machine readable information. 
    yet Only a small fraction of human K is in formal languages needed to formal reasoning.

    Today we look to computing to revolutionize communication of *human* comprehensible information. 
    Only with this vastly more detailed understanding of the asymetric/urban environment can 
