# AR.AR.03-10-03d --

    "From: CN=Kevin Singley/OU=Watson/O=IBM"
    "Subject: tutoring reference"
    ""
    "Hi Dan,

    Here's a good reference for model tracing for you:



    Below is a reference to the work I mentioned on the phone in which the ideal 
    model is modified through interactions with a "teacher."  The basic problem 
    they were addressing is as follows:  They had already built an algebra tutor 
    that had a static ideal model.  When they deployed this tutor in actual 
    classrooms with real teachers, they found that the teachers often had different 
    preferences for how they wanted the algebra problems solved by their students; 
    they disagreed with the way the ideal model was doing things.  So Anderson et 
    al. wanted to build a system that could be modified by the teacher without the 
    teacher having to do any rule-based programming.  The idea was the teacher 
    would simply use the same interface the student would use to solve problems in 
    order to teach the system the preferred procedure.  You would have to get the 
    paper yourself to find out the extent of the learning or the underlying 
    technologies used; as Peter would say:  "the sixties (in my case seventies) 
    were too good to me!!!"

    Milson, R., Lewis, M. W., and Anderson, J. R. (1990). The TEACHER'S APPRENTICE: 
    Building an algebra tutor (pp.53-71). In R. Freedle (Ed.), Artificial 
    Intelligence and the Future of Testing. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.

    Regards,
    Kevin
    "
