# Journal.2006\_12\_08a --

    EMAILS  xxxxxxx

    Duane



    Jessica Stirberg
    New Paltz, NY
    845 256 7020
    jstirberg@optonline.net

    Jessica,

    Hello!  The world has already begun to whirl and turn.  I can't 
    believe it is already almost two weeks since we were on the 
    meditation retreat together.  

    The minutes of the day do fill up.  I am now on a bus, to the 
    airport to visit my family.  I hope your holiday plans are
    shaping up (and you won't be too busy taking care of everyone
    to enjoy it yourself.

    Anyway, it occurred to me that the way life goes, our paths
    might not cross again.  If so, that is ok, and often the
    way it can go.  

    Still I would not forgive myself for not at least dropping you
    a note.  Somehow I had the ease and comfort of close friends
    almost immediately when spending time together.  I was a little
    bit special.  Thanks alot for that!

    I wish you well.  Have a happy thanksgiving.

    warm thoughts,
    Dan 


    Met at joel's meetup potluck.  bald.
    Michael Migdal
    mjmigdal@yahoo.com  301 787 5595

    Joel's meetup.  small indian.
    Hafiza Pirani
    hpirani@nihcm.org   202 296-4426

    Oh CRAP!  Did I promise I was going to write an email *the* *very*
    *next* *day* ?   No, no, I think I said I would write it "quite soon."
    Yes that was it!  Well here is that email.

    I am on my way right now to see my parents for thanksgiving.  What are your
    plans?  I will be out till next week, and have a big presentation Tuesday of
    the following week.  Still I will take you up on that VA square metro dinner.

    Cheers!
    -dan
