# Journal.2007\_06\_23t --

    YYYYYYY

    Chuck,

    I like my status as the fair hair child of the IPTO office.  And I don't want this timing issue to make a
    dent in that, either in your mind or in Tony's.

    Rightly or wrongly, I waited 'till the day Tony accepted my penta in order to actually building slides for my 
    new start briefing slides.  Between now and the briefing, I have two week vacation gap, a SBIR workshop, the 
    GO workshop, a site visit to NIST to see if they can be sole sourced on part of the new start briefing for Tony.

    As I have not started the new start deck, and my team is preparing materials for each of those activities,
    so without giving it much thought I opted to push the brief off for two weeks.

    But, two days, one week, or even two weeks is not going to make or break my briefing. 
    It will get the team sweating, but hey this is DARPA right?  Mostly I don't want any dent in that fair haired image,
    too much of this place rides on perception.  So if discussions of moving this briefing around are rising to the 
    level of Tony's awareness and/or making you feel I am not as focused as you want.  Then screw it, the team (and I) 
    can suck it up, and brief on the date we have set!


    Sounds like that is the right approach.  Will talk to you tomorrow morning about this.

    --dan


     don't want to either you or Tony to feel that I am not moving 
    I am not


    It is silly for something like this to 

     don't want this rising to the level 

    so as matter of course I pushed the 
    I typically 
