# Journal.2007\_04\_20 --

    GADGETS

    From Mobius you can have Bond getting an assignment that requires him to know how to do something esoteric (e.g., stop a reactor from going prompt critical) and he tearns Mobius loose to read up on nuclear reactors and their controls so that when he gets on location the knowledge he needs is readily available to him.  If you want to combine gadgets and couple to some of the machine translation work, Mobius could be building part of its knowledge base by reading manuals written in Farsi and combining this knowledge with some derived from English.  After all, it's just triples... And the exploitation of redundancy for uncertainty management makes the otherwise noisy data "good enough" for Bond to save the free world at the last minute.

    If you want TL, send an autonomous robot in to reconoiter a secure space with instructions to avoid capture and detection.  Tell it that cameras are like sentries and their are IR light beams that are like tripwires.

    This is an instructable computing device.  Bond instructs the device to go into a crowded room, identify the enemy agent, and report back.  The spider returns with an inconclusive result.  Bond provides additional guidance, and this time the spider reports high-confidence identification.

    How about a spider with voice recognition and can project images like R2D2 did with Pricess Leia
    Bond tells the spider to find XXX and the systems says remembering "7285 images" and shows 
    a correct but unintended image, then after correcting by voice, adding that the spider should find XXX but only with YYY
    the spider shows a correct image, and after saying "activate" the spider runs off to find its target.
    (It would be funniest if because of the XXX target, the audience is now imaging this spider going off to
    accost some hapless person on the commode, is sleeping or some such.)
