# BRL.Meeting.2006\_06\_11\_2006\_05\_02\_5 Cohen and Julie at TL --

    NOTES FROM PAUL AND JULIE
    ? give hats out.  w. regular phone meetings.  written objectives.  and timeline.
    ? give hats out within teams???   let them present at each meeting.



    > Example, which is both my first spinoff target domain & illustrates critical new training processes.

    > Task is to teach fleet of UAV survellance systems to perform tasks that could only be known in field.

    > What do we notice about example?  
      (1) Great simplification obtained by bootstrapping knowledge.  
      (2) Combining rich inputs greatly constrains learning.

    > Not just true of this example but are key drivers for teacher driven learning.
    > Build program that permits scientific (empirical) study of learning system that rely on these drivers.


    > Claim:  while example shows only survellance UAVs, our claim is that all mil hardware should be field trainable.




    CLAIM:
    (1) useful for uav.


    (2)  Natural Instruction is broadly applicable.  
            def: what any human does to convey a performace task to another human.
            Key characteristics:  task driven, rich input, bootstrap
    done a study of n-i and things that are important.  






    (2) 
    (2) Teacher driven learning is a general capability worthy of scientific studied.  Specifically we study:
    Bootstrapped-learning driven by a ladder of training
    Constrained-learning driven by rich human-training-like inputs


    -----------
    end of example:   we have name for this learning:  natural instruction
    (A) NI is sufficient for UAV
    (B) not only that but it broadly applicable.
    -----

    Guiding assertions underlying this program
    #1  Any military hardware with an actuator and a CPU should be field trainable.
        Further no technology exists today which can support this goal.
    #2  Learning driven by such natural instruction is a general capability worthy of scientific study.



    ---------------------
    slide #1.  large amt of data.  

    ladder #2:  
      diff to cyc:  organized strcutured *lesson plan*.
       example of ladder.

    weighted first

    proposed schedule


    exmaples how can you do that.....
