# S04.Nips2004 --


     <<>>?Conf=2004 
    oblinger
    2cdcEN9m





    Dear Dan Oblinger,

    This is a confirmation that you have successfully submitted the paper titled "Similarity-Based Alignment and Generalization:" to the Neural Information Processing Systems conference (NIPS2004). Your co-authors have also been notified of this submission and have been sent a login and password. Therefore, there is no need for them to register in the system. You will be notified by email if there is a problem with your electronic paper file. Otherwise, this will be your final acknowledgement.

    Notification of acceptance or rejection of submitted papers will be mailed to the first author (or designated author) by September 1, 2004.  Note that at least one author of each accepted paper is required to attend the conference to present the work.

    If you have any questions, please contact the NIPS2004 organizers at nips04workflow@cs.huji.ac.il.

    Best regards,

    Yair Weiss  (NIPS2004 Program Chair)
    ---------- Cut Here for Title Page ----------

    NIPS2004 Submission Title Page

    ==============
    Paper ID: #381
    ==============

    Paper Title: Similarity-Based Alignment and Generalization:
    Subtitle: A New Paradigm for Programming By Demonstration
    Keywords: AA - other, Applications

    ABSTRACT (200 words): We present an approach to learning procedural knowledge by

    demonstration called similarity-based alignment and

    generalization, whose key characteristic is the ability to

    induce complex procedure structure (loops and conditional

    branches) by aligning multiple unannotated demonstrations of

    a procedure.  We present the SimIOHMM, an implemented

    instance of a similarity-based alignment and generalization

    algorithm that extends the well-known Input-Output Hidden

    Markov Model (IOHMM).  We show that the SimIOHMM has

    significantly better performance than the IOHMM.  We present

    an empirical evaluation that demonstrates our system's

    scaling performance and quantifies the performance increase

    obtained through the use of the SimIOHMM.




    Contact Author: Dan Oblinger
    Affiliation 1: IBM TJ Watson Research
    Affiliation 2: 
    Street Address1: IBM
    Street Address2: 19 Skyline Drive
    City/Town: Hawthorne
    State: 
    Zip: 10532
    Country: USA
    Phone: 914 784 7531
    Fax: 
    Email: nips-oblio@sneakemail.com

    Co-Author 1: Dan Oblinger nips-oblio@sneakemail.com
    Co-Author 2: Vittorio Castelli vittorio@us.ibm.com
    Co-Author 3: Larry Bergman bergman@us.ibm.com
    Co-Author 4: Tessa Lau tessalau@us.ibm.com
    Co-Author 5:      
    Co-Author 6:    
    Co-Author 7:    
    Co-Author 8:    
    Co-Author 9:    
    Co-Author 10:    

    The author(s) certifies that this paper has not already been accepted by nor is it currently under review for a journal or another conference, nor will it be submitted for such during NIPS2004's review period.   (This prohibition does NOT apply to longer versions of the paper,
    which may be under review for a journal, or to significantly different versions of the same material, submitted or presented in part elsewhere, if they are unlikely to have been seen by the NIPS audience.)


    <<>>
    NIPS 2004
    <<>>

    Dear Dan Oblinger, 

    You have been registered as an author for the Neural Information Processing Systems conference (NIPS2004).

    You can login to our system at <<>>?Conf=2004 with the following data:

    Login: oblinger
    Password: 2cdcEN9m

    You will have an opportunity to change your login and password in the edit user data section. Please note: You will not receive a message with your changed data, so please be sure to keep track of your login and password if you choose to change it.

    ****NOTE*****
    If you forget your password, click on the "Password Forgotten" below the login prompt at <<>>?Conf=2004.
    ***************

    Please note that the person who submits the paper to the NIPS2004 paper submission software will AUTOMATICALLY be listed as the "contact author". The contact author does NOT need to list his/her name again as in the "co-author" section.  

    Please be sure to submit your paper no later than June 4, 2004. Submissions received after the deadlines or that do not meet the length or formatting requirements detailed on the NIPS2004 web site will not be accepted for review. Notification of receipt of the electronic paper will be mailed to all of the authors soon after receipt. If there are problems with the electronic submission, we will contact the primary author by email.

    If you have any further questions, please contact us via email at nips04workflow@cs.huji.ac.il. Thank you for submitting your paper to NIPS2004!


    Best regards, 

    Yair Weiss (NIPS2004 Program Chair)

    <<>>
    NIPS 2004
    <<>>
