=[[Prj]] [[SV]] [[SV90.]] 


# TOP


- Resource & support needed
- Ownership of result
- Agreement on deliverables

- Report to structure
- A direct report.

- AI-Roadmap: patents, hiring, differentiate, R&D, algo
- AI super guy; 
- Architect.
- Fire fighter.
- Mkt research

- What does Jason thing are the big issues



== [[Prj]]  < [[SV]]   
- [[SVJ]] 

- Definition of success from Jason's perspective.


- Lead effort to document arch & roadmap
- Ten patentable ideas
- Work w/ Jason to define needed product for strong-A


Strategy:  
- Build a winning company.  Sub-goals, secure fast & strong A-round.
- Search for product market fit



# TOPICS

## DELIVERABLES (first 90-days & A-round)
### My Job Description

DUTIES: 
- Oversee **R&D of AI** tech; 
- Oversee **IP strategy** & development
- Be **Chief Architect** 
- Drive **strategy & execution of Eng Team**
- Core member of management team:  All **Strategic planning; Fundraising; Recruiting**


Duties:
- Your job title will be Chief Technical Officer, reporting to Jason Syversen, CEO.  Your duties generally will be in the areas of:
	- overseeing the research and development of our Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology, which represent the core foundation of our products. You will 
	- oversee all intellectual property strategy and development. You will also 
	- serve as chief architect and 
	- drive the strategy and execution of our engineering team to ensure delivery of world-class AI products. 
	- As a core member of the management team you will also  
		- participate in all strategic planning and support other corporate goals such as 
		- revenue, recruiting, fund raising, etc., but you may be assigned other duties as needed. This is a full-time position.


### Company deliverables

**STRONG A-ROUND**
- Customer Growth & Justification that we have product-market fit
- Justification & story that SV can address Multiple segments & Multiple Verticals
- Justification that we have or will have differentiated IP

**STRONG CUSTOMER GROWTH**
- Using AI to lower costs
- Scaling support org to handle new customer demand

**FINDING & VALIDATING CUSTOMER FIT**
- What are the best measure for this?
- How & Who are we surveying to gather info?






### Threat-Matrix - A-round Risks/Work Table and Roadmap

- Matrix of key outcomes, levels of risk, amounts of work, players involved, priority/scheduling, narrative roadmap
- 2 year roadmap


### Patent Portfolio Roadmap & SV Sustainable Differentiation Roadmap
- Build Patent strategy and portfolio based on SV R&D that covers all key innovations up to the A-around, that robustly protects and monetizes our interests


### SV Tech Roadmap
- Build and maintain the Sports Visio R&D roadmap.  
	- This roadmap should be optimized to maximize our attractiveness at the A-round, 
	- It should to maximizes our corporate trajectory within the sports space.
	- This roadmap should detail innovations that support multiple market segments within Basketball
	- It should detail innovations supports all all aspects of our product within these segments, and 
	- It should weave both research, development and productization of solutions beyond our first sport of basketball in a tempo that maximizes corp velocity and attractiveness
	- ???  Roadmap should further provide evidentiary support justifying the particular tradeoffs and prioritizations contained in the roadmap given the information that is pragmaticall y attainable in support of this roadmap and plan
	
- Plan and execute hiring as required by our roadmap subject to funding available 


### SV Architecture
**PARTS**
- PLATFORM TRADEOFFS MATRIX
- KEY ALGORITHMS & PER GAME COST ANALYSIS
- DATA FLOW DIAGRAMS
- DATASET MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
- CODE FLOW PROCESSES
- QA PROCESSES
- PRODUCT VISION DOWN TO BACKLOG GROOMING & SPRINT PLANNING


### Manual labor-cost analysis



- Serve as the architect for Sports Visio.
	- Work with all relevant technical stakeholders to develop the end-to-end architecture for 
A GROWING FOCUS AS WE APPROACH AND PASS THE A-ROUND
- DIFFERENTIATING IP - Identify, cultivate, and grow SV's differentiating IP.  
	- The CV space is thick with talent, once a business model is proven, many will follow.  We remain most competitive in the market and most attractive investors thru sustained investment is sports-CV related innovation.
	- This requires 
TECH DIFF - Areas of Technical Differentiation


### STARS Analysis
- Build stars table company breakdown with S-T-A-R-S and Job Element and Priority Percentage.  [[F90#^stars]] 
- How should I approach learning and transition based on this?


### Corp Docs
- Learn by fleshing these out



### AI Alg Road Map



### Fundraising Support
- 



### Hiring



## MY GOALS

#### Influence objectives
- Strongest alliance with Mike and Brian.
	- WHY:  Need to shape product at a granular level in order drive customer adoption.
	- Brian: requires most granular connection with him on feature details.
	- Mike: requires high-level agreement, and willingness to have some of his reports support the longer term R&D agenda.  Might feel most competition w/ me.
	- Sales: requires low-ego consensus building on good processes, objectives, and metrics.
- Strong alliance with Jason and Brian.


**WHO			WHAT			WHEN      (INFLUENCES REQUIRED)**   
- Brian	
- Mike
- Sales


WHO		MOTIVATION				FORCES				ALTERNATIVES     (MOTIVATIONS TABLE)




WINNING ALLIANCES:  Brian, Mike, Sales
BLOCKING ALLIANCES:		Jason

INFLUENCE 


## 90-DAY PLAN
### KEY CEO CONVERSATIONS
#### Situation
- Biggest gaps to the A?  

### Month 1
#### INTRO CALLS
	- INTRO CALLS - Intro call with each employee:  Key objectives; What join; their wants
Template:
- Personal intros
- Current strategy?  +/-
#### __
	- DOWN LOADS - 
	- POSSIBLE ROADMAP - 
#### KEY LEARNING
- Competitors(features, sales)
- Investors

#### CONNECT & ALIGN
- 

### End of Month 1
- Jason meeting: Month 1 hypotheses & findings.
- Meetings
- Team feedback:  get feedback from Brian & Mike
- Analyze: Customers & Distributor interfaces
- Analyze couple of key processes
- Meet key integrators: what problems do they see?  (historians as allies?  others?)
- Gap Analysis
	- TECH GAPS - 
	- TEAM GAPS - 
	- SCHOOL HIRING - Develop & start hiring plan for targeting 
	- HIRING TESTS - 

### Month 2
### Month 3


## PLAN DETAILS
### LEARNING PRIORITIES
#### About SV
- HISTORY:	Performed in the past?  Goals set?  Root causes?  Efforts to change?  what happened?
- PRESENT:	Strategy / People / Processes Landmines / Early wins here?
- FUTURE:	Challenges/Opportunities, Barriers/Resources, Culture to keep/change
- PRODUCTS:
#### SV Parts / Processes
- Sales / Customer service
- Test alignment from top down - strategy, challenges, opportunities
- SALES CALLS: 

#### SV Technical
- CV research & tech
- Cloud/infrastructure
#### SV Research
- Possible areas for sustained differentiation.  Key for a-round story, sustained market growth, and exit valuation.
#### SV Fundraising
- What is his process, 
#### SV External
- BUYER SIDE: Coaches; People who sell to Leagues/Coaches; 
- COMPETITORS: 
#### Market Segments
#### Who To Ask
- SALES:
- FIN: Sam
- STRUCTURING:  
#### What Are Jason's Vulnerabilities / Worries
- How can I help


#### MARKET UNDERSTANDING

#### TOOL CHAIN
#### CV ALGORITHMS


### VULNERABILITIES

- NOT TRACKING METHODICALLY - 
- NO CLEAR MANDATE - 
- VOLITILE - 
- GRAVITY - Big Ideas & Systems
- WEAKNESS - Ops, HR, 
- STRENGTH PROBLEMS: System over engineering
- EMBRACE gaps to overcome


### INTRO CALL SCRIPT


I will try to schedule calls for 45 minutes, and on zoom.  
This will likely allow them to spill over an extra 15min if needed.
I plan to keep a common structure for all calls.


INTRODUCTIONS
- Introduce myself (approx 3min) then let them introduce themselves in a symmetric way.

CONTEXT
 " I know Sports Visio has already made alot of progress, so my first aim before I even start is to just understand where we are, what is working well, 
   and what isn't.  For the moment, I am just in learning mode.  Do you mind if I just launch in on a bunch of questions to get your read on our situation? "

ABOUT THEM
  " As I understand it you are working on XXXX and are responsible for YYYY.  Is that right?"
  " So on the day2day, who are you mostly interacting with, and what fills most of your time?"
  " and how is it going?  are there areas with big challenges, or others working super well? "

COMPANY WIDE
  " I know we are a new company, but what is your sense of our processes, our meetings, our decision making approach and tempo? etc."
- How are our processes?  Making decisions
- How is our velocity?  Issues?  make it better?
- Are there resources that we could be using better than we are right now?

ABOUT ME
 " My mandate is to build SV R&D AI org; Oversee engineering & corp strategy;  Help develop and capture our differentiated IP;  help w fundraising etc. "
 " But really Jason has made it clear that I should rollup my sleeves and dig into areas where I will have the biggest impact. "
 " If you were me, where would YOU focus?  Where do you think I should look first in trying to add value? " 

End with excitement about SV and some kind of personal excitement about working with them in particular, if I can.



QUESTIONS:
1. Biggest challenges.
2. Why are we facing these challenges?
3. Most promising unexploited opportunities for growth?
4. What needs to happen to  exploit these opportunities?
5. If you were me, what would you focus on?

### TAKING STOCK

## LATER
CTO corner postings.