# 8B-encylopedia.Web-em --

     <<>>     
     <<>>     
     
     
    MULTISET GENERATOR 
    - A multiset generator is a p.d.f. over some set of output elements, and 
      the special  symbol. 
    - Formally the function P mapping symbols in S onto [0, 1] is a multiset 
      generator iff  is a member of S, and P is a p.d.f. 
    - A multiset is constructed from P by nondeterministically selecting 
      elements from S according to the pdf, P, until the  symbol  
      is selected.  The multiset contructed is the multiset of elements chosen 
      from S prior to the first selection of  is the multiset  
      generate by P. 
     
    A K-NODE GRAPH GENERATOR 
    - A k-node graph generator, G, is a tuple  where: 
        T is an ordered set of k type nodes (sometimes written <<>>) 
        D is a multiset generator over T 
        L is an ordered set of link generators for each element of <<>>. 
          Each link generator Li is a multiset generator over T. 
    - A graph is contructed from G by: 
        First constructing a multiset of type nodes Nj drawn from D. 
        Each node Nj is assigned a multiset of outlink types TYPESj drawn from the 
        cooresponding multiset generator, Li associated with Nj.  The outlinks 
        for node Nj, LINKj sets are constructed by randomly choosing nodes from Nj 
        whose type matches each type found in TYPESj.  (If no node in Nj has 
        a type found in TYPESj then that type is simply skipped.) 
    - OUT(LINKj | G) is the probablility that a given link structure LINKj will  
        be generated by a generator G. 
     
     
    INPUT 
    - A set of n content nodes. 
    - A graph structure of the links between these content nodes, LINKj 
    - An integer k specifying the size of the summary graph. 
    - A positive, real-valued match function that specifies the match 
      between a content node and a type node. 
     
    FIND 
    - The k-node summary graph, and homomorphism from content nodes that 
      maximizes the expected match score from a content node to its respective 
      summary node. 
     
    OUTPUT 
    - A set of k summary nodes. 
    - A mapping from content nodes onto these summary nodes. 
    - A graph structure over the topic nodes that summarizes the link structure 
      from the original graph. 
     
     
    =============== 
    BASIC ALGORITHM 
    =============== 
     
     
     
    COMPUTING THE ?BEST? GENERATOR FOR A LINK STRUCTURE 
    Input: 
      Let N     be a set of content nodes. 
      Let LINK  be sets of out links for each content node N. 
      Let k     be a whole number representing the number types to be found. 
     
    Initialize: 
      Let T      be a set of type nodes such that |T| = k. 
      Let MAP(0) be a random mapping from N onto T. 
     
    Repeat until quiecence: 
      1) For each Nj in N, set TYPES(i) to be the multiset of types associated  
         with each LINKj according to MAP(i) 
      2) For all t  in T, set L(i+1)   <- ComputeLinks(Tm, MAP(i), N, LINK) 
      3) For all Nj in N, set MAP(i+1) <- ComputeMapping(Nj, L(i+1), TYPES(i)) 
     
    Finally 
      Let D be the multiset generator over T that generates MAP(i) applied to N. 
     
    Output the generator G =  
     
     
     
     
    COMPUTING THE ?BEST? GENERATOR FOR A SET OF MULTISETS 
    - Let M be a set of multisets.  Each Mi should have exactly one occurance 
      of the  symbol. 
    - Let M* be the multiset union of the Mi multisets. 
    - Compute P as the pdf over the elements of M* 
    - Return P 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
