

Years = 7 IBM + 6 DARPA + 3 Aeolus/Martian + 2 SV

Yari, 

Apologies for my delay in responding.  I have been travelling, and I wanted to give attention to my answers here as I think to role is both interesting, and a very strong fit for my experience.


> > > - Briefly summarize what you would like to do in a new role.

My strength and love is to connect collaborate and lead strategy at a deeply technical level.  Historically this has meant leading a tight team build advanced technology.  For example a two armed dexterous robot, or a DARPA program of over 200 researchers aiming to marry NLP algorithms with statistical learning in order to perform automated unstructured to structured text conversion (this research precipitated key parts of the deep learning prevalent today.)

> > > - What are your main reasons in looking for a new opportunity at this time?

I have been working on the same sports tech computer vision problem for over two years now, I would like to diversify the range of deep learning sub-disciplines where I am proficient.


> > > - Are you willing to travel occasionally (approx. 1x month)?

Yes, I would enjoy the travel, it often yields focused periods of energized work.

> > > - When would you be able to start a new position?

For the right position, I could begin my transition immediately.  Ideally I would help my team land a good replacement for my current role, but I do this in a very part time role after the about 3 weeks of preparation.


> > > - This role requires the ability to obtain a clearance. Do you currently hold a clearance? If not, are you willing and able to obtain one?

I held TS/SCI while at DARPA; it has not been active for 10+ years, but I should be able to get another one.

> > > - Please tell us about your salary requirements (a range is acceptable rather than open or negotiable)?

I would not consider anything below $300K in total compensation, but i am expecting the right role will offer more than this.

> > > - Please list highest completed education and total years of relevant experience.

PhD in Computer Science (UIUC) and 18 years of relevant experience.
> > > 
> > > **Please briefly detail your experience, including number of years with the following:**
> > > 
> > > - How many years of direct experience with DoD and IC research programs and testing and evaluation do you have?

6 years as a DARPA PM, and 3 years as a DoD funded IC.

> > > - Performing AI R&D; Knowledge and experience with AI/ML engineering including code implementation, optimization, and AI/ML tooling 

12 years that I was not a DARPA pm were all AI/ML engineering.


> > > - Acting as SME for program engagements or proposal support

My 3 years being funded I acted lightly as a SME (more as a researcher) for those engagements.

But of course all of my years as a PM were heavily involved in proposal evaluation, though my authoring was limited to authoring a dozen pluse calls for proposal including 100+ page detailed evaluation protocols in some cases.


Additional Detail:
The majority of my research has been in AI/ML as were many of my DARPA programs, but I did have two cyber efforts while there and won funding for a third which never happened as I was on my way out the door at the the time.

Cheers, 
Dan Oblinger
CTO Sports Visio

