# PBC.0b00-brag99 --

    Research Technical Employee Accomplishments Summary 
     
    Name:         Dan Oblinger 
    Date:         11/10/99 
    Organization:  Ukelson 
     
    1. WIN   
     
    Completed  Scientific\Technical Work 
     
    Released Mail Assistant to the Research community through the CIO's office.  (Beyond development of the application, this involved writing a C wrapper program to allow robust deployment, writing a simple user's manual, and integrating the application into the Watson Information Services database.) 
     
     
    Deployed two releases of the Watch-Me-Read (WMR) Diagnostics. 
    The first release included many changes supporting the deployment of WMR within the Houston School District.  Examples of these changes include adaptation of the application's screen size, and allowing individual schools to specify standard word lists for analysis at that school. 
    The second release extends statistics computed by the tool.  Both total-time, and a minute-by-minute time-on-task measurement are needed to support the quantitative analysis of WMR being carried out at Vanderbilt University. 
     
     
    Abstracted the Plist module for reuse.  Module now in use in three applications: Learning Trail, WMR Diagnostics, and the Mail Assistant.  Module provides simple, generic, human-authorable file format designed for application configuration, and data transfer. 
    For use with Learning Trail I created a simple a C interface, and XML parsing support. 
     
     
     
    Ongoing and Newly Initiated Work 
     
    Drafted a FOAK proposal for Skill Inference using electronic communications data.  Currently in communication with many people from IGS, LOTUS, and IBM Research in an attempt to coordinate a new research initiative that utilizes experience within research in a human skill-mining system based on notes which supplying skills data to IGS.  This collaboration has the potential for very large impact.  Tools for understanding one's work force are increasingly central, as companies become more knowledge based. Research's considerable experience with the enabling technologies (machine learning and text mining) should be leveraged in the development of this new technology. 
     
    Developed a new model of inductive learning (Transformational Learning) with Ricardo Vilalta (also at IBM Research).  We believe this model of inductive inference will not suffer from the reduction in dataset size inherent in alternative (decision-tree) type inductive learning systems.  If future empirical testing bears this hypothesis out, then transformational learning will have significant impact on the machine learning community, and will be a significant patentable asset for IBM. 
     
     
     
    Growth and service 
     
    Primary personal growth this year has been through many contacts made across IBM and LOTUS.  New contacts resulted from a number of workshops at both Almaden and Watson.  I believe future collaboration though these connections will increase my ability to impact IBM. 
     
    Learned the Notes API. 
     
     
    2.  TEAM 
     
    Teamwork and Cross-organizational Contribution 
     
    Forging link between Research and IRIS to provide an important tool for IGS.  As mentioned above, I am trying to tie the Raven project within IRIS, to the text mining technologies developed within Research, in order provide an automatically computed skills database for IGS.  Success in this endeavor will multiply the impact of each of these three group's otherwise isolated contribution, and will minimize the eventual maintenance task faced by each. 
     
    Collaborated with John Prager (under Alan Marwick) on applying IBM's TEXTRAC to the Encyclopedia Britannica.  Resulting system answers free-text queries with a specific sentence found in the encyclopedia. We will be presenting this prototype to Britannica by the end of this year. 
     
    Developing our Community 
     
    Laid the groundwork for the creation of a new PIC on Artificial Intelligence.  This PIC is now under review by Patricia Goldberg, Fran Allen and the heads of the existing PICs. My contribution to this four-person effort includes: 
    Creation and population of a discussion database. 
    Identification of speakers within Research who will give overview tutorials in two different areas within AI. 
    Hosting two outside speaker visits: Pat Langley and Foster Provost. 
     
    Agreed to host Larry Birnbaum in support of the KDD PIC. 
     
     
     
    University Relations and Recruiting 
     
    Participated in IBM's SUR grant with the University of Houston-Downtown (UH/D). IBM was given the Galaxy award for this interaction.  Met with members of the academic community there on a trip coinciding with our granting of an SP2 super computer.  Have subsequently been in contact them regarding possible follow on grants. 
     
     
    3.  EXECUTE 
     
    Product/Services Impact 
     
    Supported the core Watch Me Read application with many background activities: 
    Wrote a short description of the project that discussed possible business relationship with the Syracuse Language Institute. 
    Worked with Kristi at Cognitive Concepts in their testing of the possible use of IBM speech technology (using the chaff-test program). 
    Burnt distribution CD; and provided phone support; demonstrated system. 
     
    External Publications and Presentations  
     
    Member of AAAI; attended the conference on Knowledge Discovery and Datamining (KDD). 
     
    New Impact from previous years' work 
     
    Quantitative evaluation of WMR is critical for it's continued deployment, and its eventual acceptance.  Additions to the Diagnostics application support this analysis. 
            
          
         
     
