# Rational.10/19/04\_Tate -- Rational Help

    Adam Wu/China/IBM, 
    Allan R Tate/Lexington/IBM, 
    Ashok T Reddy/Cupertino/IBM@IBMUS, 
    Stephanie R Chace/Lexington/IBM@IBMUS, 
    Steven M Stansel/Lexington/IBM@IBMUS, 

       <<>>     (and Clear Quest)

    Thanks to all for a productive one-hour meeting.  I have summarized the next steps
    identified at that meeting here.  We look forward to learning more, and in 
    participating in your unassisted evaluation beta.

    Thanks, 
    Dan




    Next Steps:

    (1) We will participate in the Unassisted Evaluation Beta in 
        November, and will consider if and how easily our technology
        could be used to provide similar functionality.

    (2) Allan will send us red and green thread scenarios that we can use
        as examples of the kinds of procedures that Rational is interested in capturing.

    (3) One application for PW would be a customer tool for generating
        training materials for usage of Rational specific to their organization.
        Allan will try to find where such a tool might fit into the Rational organization.

    (4) Vittorio will contact Stephanie about the training done internally within Rational.
        This may provide us with examples of procedures relevant to Rational, and let us
        see the tools currently used for training.

    (5) Dan will contact Adam regarding he codification of green threads.
        (Was there another person I was also supposed to contact about the codification of green threads?)
