# BL.Journal.2006\_11\_19b --

    PEOPLE FOR LADDERS

    Can you think of rescources from the training community that I could use
    > in the construction of these ladders?
    >
    > (#1) Relevant reserachers
    >

    Some that immediately come to mind are: John Anderson (CMU); Ken Koedinger
    (CMU); Alan Lesgold (University of Pittsburgh); Kurt Van Lehn (University of
    Pittsburgh); Diane Litman (University of Pittsburgh); Lewis Johnson
    (USC-ISI); Dan Suthers (University of Hawaii); Tom Murray (Hampshire College
    and the University of Massachusetts - Amherst); and Bruce Roberts (BBN).
    There are many more researchers in the field. A good list of ITS researchers
    can be found at
    <<>> There was a
    lot of work in simulation environments for ITSs funded in the 1980s and
    1990s by the Human Resources Directorate at the Air Force Research Lab at
    Brooks Air Force Base. That group was closed down around 2000 but the work
    funded there was very relevant. Dr. Wes Regian funded a lot of that
    research. I am not sure where Wes is these days. Joseph Psotka at the Army
    Research Lab also funded a lot of the ITS work, especially in the 1980s.
    Luciano Iorizzo at the Army Training Support Center at Fort Eustis, VA (
    <<>>) funded an ITS project of mine when he
    was at the Army Intelligence School at Ft. Huachuca. I am not sure if he is
    still funding ITS work at the Army Training Support Center but he may have
    some good perspectives to offer you. Dr. Susan Chipman at Office of Naval
    Research (<<>>) has
    funded ITS research for a long time and would be a great resource for you.
    She probably is nearby DARPA.

    At MITRE, Brant Cheikes, Gary Klein, Frank Linton, John Tyler and myself
    have expertise in ITSs.
