# BL.Journal.2007\_06\_23a --

    Comment about open competition.


    (1) We cannot introduce risks into the program in order to support a competition.  
        This is and must be our bed rock position.

    (2) However, having an aggressive early taget can reduce risks to the program, as long as the work
        being performed over an above work strictly required by the program is strongly contained, is 
        funded through other means, and if the bulk of the work for a competition is not performed 
        as part of the BL program.

    (3) We will not release competition materials that are not robust.  Since we cannot know exactly
        where our framework, etc. will be in 6 months we cannot commit to such a time frame, that
        does not mean we cannot strive for it, and make a final decision then.

    (4) Considerable work for the competition can be separated from the project:
        - Managing <<>> producing materials for the competition (e.g. documentation)
        - Interacting with participants
        - Running the competition & associated computing resources
        - Producing a 'shell electronic student' for participants to start with
        - Repurposing curricula from our program for use in the competition.

    (5) Key aspects of BL that cannot be offloaded
        - Fixing bugs in the framework and curricula.
          - Level one support should be offloaded and initial diagnosis of the bugs can also be offloaded
            so fixing bugs from this source could be lighter than bugs from SRI (where BAE must perform level-one)
        - Testing the framework and curricula







        
    Considerations for the competition.
    - 
    Thus we cannot commit to 
        having such a competition before we has


    I will not
