# DARPA.Activity.2007\_06\_01\_POM 2008 --

    MAY18   POM 09 -- write a paragraph per POM.
    --- Send to charlie

    * Projecting stability.  Ghost
    * LBR 
    * Brain 2
    * Sci Ed in US
    * Fin Models


    I think that the words surrounding a Mobius follow-on need to address reasoning in the presence of conflicting hypotheses.  And to inject my own personal biases here, I'd like to see scope that allowed for a system like Etzioni described but for which the output was semantically meaningful markup for legacy web pages. Read the pages and figure out what the triples are that should be used to describe the page -- bootstrapping the semantic web (a naughty phrase at DARPA, I think) on top of the regular web.


    ---------------------------------

    Projecting Stability.  

    * Today we rely on some trusted authority to guard against corruption within a social group.

    * Our ability to project stability crucially depends on our ability to build corruption free social structures.

    * Yet the need for such stability often occurs in exactly those situations where local authority is either 
      not trusted by the US, not trusted by the local population, or distrusted by both.

    * We have no solution for this increasingly common situation.  

    * What if it were possible to construct processes whose outcome could be trusted even when one did not trust all people 
      participating in those processes?  

    * We explore distributed, randomized verification processes that 
      statistically detect specific classes of corruption by relying on randomized compartmentallized information and the existence of a few
      unknown honest members.

    * The key is to ensure that even with widespread collusion, an advarsary cannot learn enough know enough to generate 

    cannot a mass enough information to cover its own tracks.  

    * If proven possible this 
    * The idea is to prove that even systematically avoiding detection of 

    * What if it were possible to construct a self-working, randomized, distributed verification alorithm.
      An algorithm that is statistically guaranteed to detect specific classes of corrupt behavior?


    -------------------------

    * Yet it is often in exactly those cases where we most need such stability that we most desperately need to there is no such trusted authority where we most want 

    This approach fails in the case that there is no authority that can be trusted, by the united states, or it fails if there is 
    no authority accepted and trusted by the population itself.

    But what if it were possible to construct a peer to peer algorithms that by virtue of distributed randomly generated tests was
    statistically guaranteed to catch specific classes of corruption?

    Such a 

    its distributed information guaranteed that
    specific classes of systematic corruption were provably impossible.  

    That is, any 

    And the limitation of the approach 


    QUESTION:  What if corruption were provably 
