# 999idea.To-the-stars --

    POWER PLANT: 
     
    - Anti-protons in superconducting magnetic bottle 
      (momentarily converted into a torus before injecting one matter proton.) 
    - Uses superconducting nano-tubes for containment. 
     
    - Converts black body radiation into electricity 
     
     
    UNIVERSAL GRID: 
    - n-layer nano-tube superconducting grid 
    - provides processing and magnetic flux control. 
    - regular structure generates modulated with hit or miss connections  
      to generate arbitrary curcuits. 
     
     
    ASSEMBLY PLANT: 
    - Nanotube ionic extruder 
     
    - Electro-magnetic tube assembly 
      - Tubes are charged and forced to travel along magnetic flux lines 
      - charging is done by electron emitters and flux lines generated by 
        routing current thru super-conductors on surface 
     
     
     
     
    DECELERATION CONFIGURATION 
    - Magnetic field used to pull OH atoms in for deceration 
    - Heat shield is a single macromolecule  
    - Has multi-configuration tendrils for heat storage 
    - Blackbody radiation from macromolecule used for directional  
      deceleration by shaped mirror behind heat shield. 
    - Superconducting magnets used to keep heat shield in funnel 
      in front. 
     
     
     
     
    JOURNEY 
    - Boost: 2mi/sec for about a day.   Reaches 80% C at ~10 AU    ??? 
    - Coast         (many years) 
      Magnetic fields used to minimize probability of molecular impact 
    - Deceleration  (1 month) 
      Magnitic fields used to focus molecules on heat shield 
    - Scanning for landing.  planet chosen before flight: 
      (1) with no atmosphere, 
      (2) max temp <2000 
      (3) min temp >200 
      (4) thus max eliptical ration less than ??? 
      (5) scan for Carbon-sulfur patch 
    - Land 
    - Material collection 
      - Build collector grids 
      - Collector grids drag extruded monorail transport network links & 
        seperate superconducting power links 
      - Carbon nanotube crates shuttle material along transport links 
     
    - First Power plant 
      - Build collector funnel on the darkside 
      - Build collector network extended to sunny side (with nanotube power and transport lines) 
     
    GRID BUILDING 
    - Nanotube extruders and U-grids can be used to build other extruders and U-grids 
      These are energetically very expensive to build, so they are only built as needed. 
     
    TRANSMITTER 
    - 10% of resources are expended on building transmitter aimed at earth. 
      progress is summarized and sent. 
     
    ORBITING POWER PLANTS 
    - A ring generator is a cylinder made of a carbon sulfer glaze reflected light  
      converts hydrogen into a plasma. 
    - As ring rotates hydrogen on dark side cools and reforms neutral atoms. 
    - Continual electron flow to dark side used to power axis aligned microwave transmitter. 
    - Rings are passive (solid-state) 
    - Many Tug-boats collectively launch ring. then few remain to keep it in place 
      and its axis antenna pointed exactly at power receiver. 
     
     
    SCALING 
    - Progressively longer ring generators are grown vertically on the surface of the asteroid. 
    - Material for these rings are taken from a larger circle on the surface of the asteroid. 
    - Once that circle has a valley dug deep enough to yield a perfectly flat surface, that 
      new surface is used to construct larger rings. 
    - As the rings increase in size, the plasma material increases in volume, and the 
      rotation speed must also increase for optimal elecric generation. 
    - Ring size is increased until it can be spun no faster. 
     
    EXAUSTION 
    - Extruders; U-grids; Tugs; and rings are built as needed. 
    - Entire asteroids carbon and sulfur is consumed building these rings in an 
      exponentially increasing process. 
    - Specialized manufacturing plants are employed to take advantage of 
      other materials, and build more specialzed equipment. 
     
     
    SPREADING 
    - Starts once deep into the exponential curve toward exhaustion 
    - Power rings are shiped with tugs, u-grids, entire manufacturing plants,  
      and propellant to spread to other asteroids in system. 
     
    GROWING 
    - One is also sent to build a habatat for the first humans. 
    - Womb, and egg are built, DNA and organells are transcoded 
      (If you don't believe that then organells and DNA are transported directly.) 
    - Alge creches are built and powered 
      each generation is transfered to new crechs. 
    - Human eggs are grown contructed and raised. 
     
     
    TERRA FORMING 
    - Tremendous amounts of energy is available for contruction & powering planet wide 
      creches. 
     
     
    FIRST HUMANS 
    - Are raised on planet in bubbles by AIs.  They are also raised by foster parent couples on  
      earth who have adopted them.  These couples have real children that double as the 
      remote children.  They also have rotated children that interact with the parents  
      robotically.  All of these experiences are "played back" intelligently. 
     
    - Very odd upbringing.  Parents interaction is rich, but only loosly interactive. 
      Parents behavior is an intelligently spliced playback of interactions that occurred on earth. 
    - Children quickly understand the difference between real & time shifted people. 
    - As adults the children get to see their parents' reaction to them,  
      but always 40 years delayed. 
     
     
     
