# Phone.Journal.2006\_04\_11d --


    ACCESSIBILITY STORY

    The Accessibility Center has invited two deans and two technical folks from the University of Illinois to the ISL on Thursday, November 13th.  The objective of the meeting is to review IBM research that might be viewed as accessible in the broadest sense, to understand U of Illinois's research goals, and to seek common interests for potential collaboration in research. Our primary objective is to continue to develop the University of Illinois as an influencer in winning bids for IBM.

    In a nut shell, a strategy to beat Microsoft in accessibility is to credit them for the great work they have done in assistive technology, but to define accessibility in a much greater scope that includes assistive technology as important, but not where IBM has excellent advanced technology.  Let's look at accessibility in the corporate environment.  It is far more that having a person with a physical disability access a computer.  Think of these three views of accessibility:
    Access to technology.  This is where Microsoft and a dedicated grout of Assistive Technology vendors have excelled.  We really only have one offering in this arena: Home Page Reader.  That navigates and reads web pages aloud.
    Access to information.  Here's where IBM begins to excel.  We have technology like summarizing, text analyzer (WebSphere), salience, text to speech, e-PIM.  Many of these are embedded in WebSphere products but not exposed as accessibility tools.  We also don't have data to document their benefit to people of all abilities (blind, deaf, cognitive, learning disabled, etc). This is where we may play with University of Illinois.  We have one early adopter interested in this.
    Access to knowledge.  This is a very high level and abstract concept.  It relates to making queries, searches, relationships more manageable.  It is the ability to access information as needed and relate it to other information.  It is tools for decision making and employment for people with various types of access limitation.  This of course could include machine learning, as in the Personal Wizard.

    Our meeting with the University of Illinois team on the 13th of November is intended to expand the conventional definitions of accessibility and to seek potential research to be funded by the Accessibility Center that would test our hypotheses that these types of technologies benefit people, way beyond the usual definition of accessibility.  Microsoft so far has the image lead in accessibility., but it is within the narrow confines of assistive technology and slightly in the access to information arena.  We need to demonstrate that our technology can benefit those who need accessibility aids.

    I had originally asked Dan Oblinger to present the work because he is a graduate of the University of Illinois. However, he is committed to a visit on the 13th at another university with John Turek.  I would be very pleased if one or both of you would be interested in a 20 minute discussion with the team about your learning research.  From what I understand, it is quite exciting and cutting edge.

    I will be in Hawthorne on the 11th and would like to meet with you prior to the meeting with the 13th.  The presentation is scheduled for 2 PM in room 1NF28. Please let me know if you have interest in participating.

    Bruce
