[FOLDER](/Users/oblinger/topics/Career/NextJob/NJ22/__NJ22__.md)
  [Paths](n:Paths)  [Purpose](n:Purpose)   [Talk](NJ22talk)
[[Paths]]
# root
## 2022 SEARCH ###
	- l2
		- l3
			- l4
				- l5
foo
__bar__   _italic_ 


**TEST THIS** -- 
## === TODO ===
	-
	- xxx.todo
	  
	  + bullet?
	- first
		- second
	- third
	  
	  [label](x-foldingtext://documents/current?nodepath=/zzz)
	  [label](x-foldingtext://ob/topics/Career/NextJob/NJ22/__Paths__.md) 
	  [label](x-foldingtext://documents/current?nodepath=/zzz/yyy) 
	  [label](x-foldingtext://documents/current) 
	  _
## === INFO ===
### === PEOPLE ===
#### --- COACHES ---
##### 2021.09.00 - From jerry-first-phd consultant???
			  
			  
			  ~~ [foob_nj22_foob](nj22)  
			  Ed Ipser - Coactify
			  Google et al, Consult, Co-Found, Found
			  
			  Shawn - Strategy
			  Theresa - Market
			  Frumet barns - 
			  Jack - Finance guy - Coach
			  
			  _ {{query }}
##### 2021.09.28 - Career Counciling
	- [NP](https://nickparham.com/services/career-counseling)
	- [A path that fits](https://apaththatfits.com/free-consultation/)
	- [cheaper resumes](https://www.yelp.com/biz/brightside-resumes-san-francisco-3?osq=Resume+Writing+Services)
	- [Allen Brown - resumes](https://www.yelp.com/biz/san-francisco-resume-writer-allan-brown-san-francisco-2?start=20)
	- www.parw.com	Professional Association of Resume Writers
	- www.nrwa.com		National Resume Writers Association
	- www.careerdirectors.com  Career Directors International
	  
	  
	  	Irene Marshall, MBA   www.toolsfortransition.com/contact/schedule-a-call/
	  	 510-790-9005   work    510-386-7029   cell
	  
	  	Cliff (resume writer's recommendation)
	  	Jennifer Fink	https://www.finkdevelopment.com/contact/
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  	_
##### -- A PATH THAT FITS.  Daniel Fine. --

	+1 312-805-0333

	DAN-WORK = TRANSFORMATIVE, CLEVER/HARD, INTERNALIZED, CONCEPTUAL PROBLEM-SOLVING and MENTORING

	-- Freedom from paycheck
	- Ineffective/diffuse in approach; Can I be a good CEO?
	-
	- Build a plan; execute &  monitor
	  
	  
	  	_
##### 2021.10.08 - Ira Tau Coaching

	ICF - Columbia Methodology - 


	6 session $1395.


	_
##### -- Poised --
	FROM NICK'S CONTACT
	- https://www.poised.vip/about-founder
	  	_
##### -- Recommendations from Nick Allen's Katie Wurtz --

	---------- Forwarded message ---------
	From: Katie Wurtz <katiesw@gmail.com>
	Date: Wed, Nov 10, 2021 at 11:55 AM
	Subject: Re: Referral for colleague
	To: Nick Allen <nick@nickballen.com>


	Hi Nick - I'm so sorry I didn't get back to you sooner on this!  Yes, here are some folks you could refer your friend to, depending on which areas he wants to focus on with a coach:  
	A.) Career Search/Tactics:  if he wants someone to help him tactically with his exec job search, another coaching colleague of mine recently recommended this coach - I don't know her, but my colleague said she's great at what she does:  Meredith Mehlberg (or he could try someone on her team @) https://meridethmehlberg.com. I think they focus on Career Coaching with Execs too.

	B.) Deeper Exploration/Intentionality: if he wants to explore what he'd really like to do next, what he'd be most passionate about doing or how to go about making these bigger career decisions with intentionality, here are two fantastic coaches that I've known for quite a while and recommend highly - I mentioned this to each of them, so go ahead and have him use my name if he contacts them (or lmk if he wants me to connect him in email to them, happy to do so. (Note: I actually do this kind of coaching work, but I don't have availability for him right now, sorry!) 
	Anke Thiele - anke.thiele@thehumanlink.com  https://www.thehumanlink.com/executive-coaching
	Rick Eigenbrod - rick.eigenbrod@gmail.com https://www.rickeigenbrod.com/.
	I hope that helps! Best,
	-Katie

	_
#### -- Mentor Ideas --
	- Meetups etc ????
	- SYVERSEN
	- NICK
	- ???
	  
	  _
## === ROOTS ===
### 2021.08.03 - >>> -AF-  -- NEXT JOB -- AF Sale <<<
#### 2021.10.07 - Jon discussion about Taxes
- Share price.  Tax free reorg.
- QSBS big thing: depends on laws.  80%-test
- Choice points?
- spit ball on taxes
#### _zzyy

TODO:
- DAN: write up accelerate value
- TAX ACCT: call.
- LAWYER: call.
- Please give us your deck
- Buying the assets.
- Our share class?
- Our divestment options
- How is the $1M going to be pay?
  
  FUTURE
- Our stock options
- Team stock options
  
  $1M now you going to save that $
  
  
  accelerate them argument
  dan also on call
  co
  
  
  QUESTIONS:
  
  write here:   where is the tea at, the red jar
  
  
  _
#### _
- Getting offers to the table @ the same time
- Too late to even ping dev shops.
  	(risk concentration, not beliving in space, desire pretty quick exit)
	- Good value for 15 super devs and several super PM, & 20 good QA
- Jake connection
  
  _
#### 2021.08.07 -
- strat
- the document.
- jake
  
  $2.6M  series-B
  $1M
  $300K/yr
  
  _
### 2021.10.24 - >>> BIG   -- NEXT JOB --
#### 2021.10.24 - Dan Fine KM Summary

BIG TRUTHS
- PRETTY STUCK -
- DREAD OF WORK -
	- FEAR I CANT -- Just a bit, but not very rational
	- FEAR I WILL HATE IT --
	- VIEW IT AS 'DEATH' --
- DAN WORK - I am mostly driven to execute Dan work, not really to
- WHY DO IT?
	- DRIVEN - Driven towards Dan Work - intrinsically motivating
	- TO PROVE I AM RIGHT - To myself, to everyone, to see if I am right.
	- DO WHAT I AM BUILT TO DO
	- DO WHAT I AM CAPABLE OF
	- NOT (very much) for its outcome
	- NOT for money or such
	- NOT (exactly) for fame
	- TO AVOID DRUDGERY
- LIGHT SWITCH - My interest in dan work can be very intense.
  	But it can rotate among several.  (will come back)
- LOST COLOR -
- ESCAPE&CONTROL - I am driven to work, but will feel strong need to swap sometimes
  
  
  
  _
#### 2021.09.14 - DAN-WORK - The kind of conceptual work that drives me
##### _

There is a certain kind of work (lets call in DAN-WORK) and this kind of work is so compelling I tend to work on it even when it is not rational to do so; in to the night; sometimes at expense of nearly anything else.

DAN-WORK = TRANSFORMATIVE, CLEVER/HARD, INTERNALIZED, CONCEPTUAL PROBLEM-SOLVING and MENTORING


CLEVER/HARD
- HARD WORK CAN BE BORING -- work that is just hard, like solving some huge calculus problem is just drudgery.  There are no insights to be found or tricks to play then it is exhausting and not very rewarding
- CLEVER WORK IS TOO RANDOM/QUICK -- work that is just one clever trick has no staying power, in one flash it is over, or you have no ideas and make no progress forever.
- CLEVER + HARD -- now we are TALKING.  I can play with the right kind of mathematical puzzle for weeks if it is the right shape.
  
  
  TRANSFORMATIVE
- LIFE MISSION NEEDS CONSEQUENCE -- even if I can play with a hard+clever problem for a long time, it feels hollow.  like binge-watching six seasons of game of thrones in one weekend... it was kinda fun a the time, but also anxiety provoking because you are say...  why the fuck am I doing this?
- A TRANSFORMATION STORY PROVIDES THE ANSWER -- when I can construct a story about how solving this problem will somehow transform things for some group for the better in a significant way, then have no such hollow feeling... it it jet-fuel to work even later into the night!
- SOCIAL -- One common and very satifying way for work to be transformative is for the work to be social in nature, figuring out how society can work better is inherently transformative and hard (if it were easy it would already be done!)
  
  
  INTERNALIZED
- NO PAPER NEEDED -- the very best problems are ones that can be considered for days or weeks without even needing a piece of paper -- just pure thinking.
- LESS LIBRARY RESEARCH -- I am ok needing to do some background learning in order to attack a problem.  Still this learning, unless it involves learning clever insights is a bit of needed drudgery work, it is not the main course.
- LESS COLLABORATIVE -- I am ok problem solving as part of a team, but I like moving fast, and I like the thrill of the solving itself, thus collaboration can be a bit of a speed bump for all of that.  It is ok, and can even be energizing when my partner is complementary and sharp/fast.
  
  
  CONCEPTUAL PROBLEM SOLVING
- PROBLEM FRAMING -- Often the most unconstrained (and thus hardest/cleverest) part of solving a problem is properly framing it in a way that it CAN be solved in a good way.  This is very satisfying work.
- EDGE OF FORMAL AND INFORMAL -- Often the at the fringes of what is known and what is properly framed is where the exciting action is at.  It is close enough in that one might make the transformative difference by properly framing the work, but it is not so far in that the proper framing is easily obtained.  Often this work is called "conceptualizing" a problem.  I freaking love it!
  
  
  MENTORING
- Advising
- Vision --
- Details & Tracking & Plodding -- not so much
  
  
  EXAMPLES OF DAN-WORK:
- BLOCKCHAIN - Building a POS block chain as robust as today's POW chains are
- ELDERBOT - Building an automated human-transport robot for the elderly
- TEAMSAVER - Identifying and overcoming limitations that make remote work less effective than in-person work
- ENGINES-OF-CONTROL - Building a conscious computer
- NANO-SCALE-PROGRAMMABLE-MATTER - How to build programmed 3D-nano structures
- AEOLUS-ROBOT-ARCHITECTURE - Designing the high-level APIs and architecture
  
  
  
  NEGATIVE EXAMPLES
- BORING DETAILS - I desperately want to hand off
- POLISHING - Polishing text describing an idea
- MEETINGS - Being in meetings once all the hard stuff is resolved
- TRACKING - Tracking work being done
  
  
  
  WHAT MIGHT FIT ME?
- BUSY BEE - helping with the framing & large scale solutioning across many hard tasks.
  
  
  _
##### 2021.11.21 - NINA WORK

HARD - Trying to prove theorems about privacy is very hard.
DELEGATE - Working with student means they do bulk of the tedious writeup.
EXPERT - Working near experts means that my work is efficient

_
##### - Conceptual Work

I am positively driven to think about
- the detailed conceptualization of a clever solution to a big-impact problem.
- Love just thinking, 
  
  
  DONT LOVE
- Don't love doing the library research
- I dread coordinating it.
- I resist doing it on a schedule, or for many hours at a time.
- I dread working on more boring parts.
- I dread working on parts where cleverness is not needed.
  
  _
##### - Technical center
Clear that my work must have a strongly technical center.
Possible centers:
- Applied ML reseracher
- Robotics project lead
- SOLVE -- dig into range of disparate problems and apply deep tech to them
- MENTOR -- Work as mentor to direct technical work to be done
  _
##### - Procrastination
- As soon as I work, I resort to procrastination by 
  	organizing / processing easy stuff
	- Emails, Medium/Blogs
	- Take Nap (I physically feel sleepy in a quick way)
	  _
##### - Uniform/Marcel
- IMPORTANCE -- feeling that the idea has potential for large impact
- UNIQUE -- feeling that idea that is not generally known, or solved
- PURE THOUGHT -- Struggling to understand/solve using pure thought
-
- CLEVER SOLUTION --
- EFFICIENT SYSTEM -- love thinking about how to make systems efficient
  
  _
#### 2021.07.31 - The Past and The Future - Summary for Nick

THE PAST
- MISSION #1 -- Achieve some larger-than-self impact from one of my many ideas
- MISSION #2 -- Spend my time working on diversity of challenging/fun ideas
- SUBGOAL -- Create lifestyle biz needing few hours to support mission 1 & 2
- DIAGNOSIS -- My execution was split & not well informed. Better: do #1 alone
- OUTCOME -- Only some success on #2.  Bit of money & experience too.
  
  THE FUTURE    (analysis of long terms options)
- CONSULTING -- Probably not enough money for long term 
  	(maybe on-par w/ google if fulltime, but that would suck more long term)
  	(could be used to stretch a medium term situation longer)
- AI SAFETY -- Not enough money for long term; and not a forever mission
- STARTUP -- Too risky to consider now unless I am dying to do it
- LIFESTYLE BIZ -- Too slow & too risky now.  
  	Jason's gig is best bet in that direction, but still risky & slow.
- BIG CO -- Likely this is the only real option for long term
  
  THE PRESENT   (medium term window 1-2 years)
- TOP COVER -- Use AF payout as 'top cover' to wife for gap before big co
- TOP COVER -- Get some affiliation as 'top cover' for future employer
- GOAL:
	- ACTUALIZE -- Get stuff 'out of my system' before big co jail
	  		==> into form where I can claim it as protected IP
	- MOON SHOT -- Take long shot on 
	  
	  
	  SATISFYING WORK (more items below are better, but not all are required)
- HARD THINKING - Not just execution, solve hard-to-think-thru technical tasks
- CLEVER DETAILS --
- HELPS THE WORLD (NOT MOSTLY JUST BIG CO)
  
  
  EXAMPLE AWESOME TASKS
- TECHNICAL PROBLEM FRAMING -- Hearing about a novel technical challenge, and thinking thru how one might address it at a detailed technical level.
	- e.g. how to model task in order successfully apply ML.
	- e.g. how to architect an approach
	  
	  _
### 2021.07.29 - >>> CALLS -- NEXT JOB <<<
#### 2021.10.07 - NINA
- Context & Dan summary
- Kinds of work
- Largest value?
- Becoming current in ML?
- job titles
  
  
  SW dev
  applied scientist -- people who have been publishing
  tpm - Senior Technical product manager
  research scientist
  product mgr
  sw dev mgr - 50 
  applied science manager - 50
  
  Astro - i
  AWS Robotics - 
  
  
  
  
  _
#### 2021.10.06 - BAJI
- Vishal Kumar 	https://www.linkedin.com/in/vvk1978/
- Dennis Deane 	https://www.linkedin.com/in/dennisdeane/
- Kwesi Edwards	https://www.linkedin.com/in/kwesie/
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-luciano-715225/
  _
#### 2021.09.23 - WHOM IN MY NETWORK TO ASK

To CALL:	 [Juan Huerta](https://www.linkedin.com/in/juanmhuerta/), [Rafah Hosn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rafahhosn/), [Ron Brachman](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ron-brachman-9195764/), 
Later:      Melanie Dumas, Theo Enns, [Doug Gordin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/douglas-gordin-69848/),
To Call:  	Dennis DeCoste, Foster Provost, Chris Ramming, Ronny Kohavi, 
Maybe:		Joe hellerstein, John Turek, Steve Chien, Daniel Haddick?, Drew Dean
	Herb Derby, ?Manish Gupta
_
#### 2021.09.21 - QUESTIONS TO ASK
**QUESTIONS**
- **VP-FIRST** -- VP verses FAANG	(VP at 200M series-B).
- **GAP-OK** -- Gap w. consulting
- **DESIRED ACTIVITIES** --
	-
- **SELF FRAMING** -- Framing of self
	- Applied-ML-Robotics guy
	- Objective Statement
- **DESIRED ROLE**
	- Job titles sought
- **KEY KNOWLEDGE** -- Key knowlege to have
	- Jupiter(ML-data-algo-slinging); ML-alg verbal; Management info
	  
	  PATH: 		Series-B VP;  Directly to Google;  1-year gap w. consulting
	  Framing:  	Applied-ML guy, Project Leader(Robotics/ML)
	  Job Title:	Tech-PM, DataScientist, TechLead/Manager
	  
	  _
#### 2021.07.29 - "New Programming Language" CTO
- Connor@matchstar.com   recruiter  949-689-5969  Carolyne Connor
- Michael Antonov  (former head architect for Occulus)
- Matt Shlosberg (chief of staff)  (443)629-8993  matt@formic.vc
  
  
  Questions
  -- what is the purpose of this language
  -- what is the team size now, and within the next year
  -- what is the immediate roadmap / longer roadmap
  -- should I just grab a coffee with Matt
  -- anything I should know or consider about the people involved
  	CTO / Built out a team
  
  
  Matt, 
  The opportunity to work with Michael is likely the most unique opportunity I have ever seen, maybe ever.  My interest would entirely hinge on exactly what Michael is attempting to achieve.  If possible I would love our first conversation to be a rather informal one, just to gauge if I might be a good fit for this role, and whether this role might be a good fit for me.  Regardless of what we find, I am sure the connection will be a interesting one, so I am very happy to meet over coffee to learn more.
  
  I don't have an up to date resume, though I am happy to get it up to date and gather relevant materials if we decide a match is possible.  In the mean time, my linked in is pretty close so I will include that.
  
  As this position is quite specific, I think it will save us both time if I layout the ways I do and do not seem to match what I think you are looking for:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/danieloblinger/
  
  
  LANGUAGES
- I _**love**_ language design!  Trying to formulate the obvious commonalities spanning modern languages into a single uniform "Ur" langauge has been a passion project for many years.
- In grad school I spent a year focused on formal languages and the building axomic and denotational theories for parallel programming.
- I am a lifelong lisp hacker, this is a beautiful ecosystem where one can invent programming paradigms easily using the meta-object-protocol or simply via funky load time macros.
- I deeply understand the practical memory-layout & code consequences of languages choices.  (e.g. different tradeoffs w/ different implementations of persistence multiple inheritance, or the ways V8 or PyPy compilers performs JIT type analysis to optomize memory layout for objects.)  I enjoy thinking about how to "push the bubble under the carpet" to provide a best approach to some language feature.
  
  
  RELEVANT EXPERIENCES
- At Aeolus Robotics, I was brought in again as a founding CTO.  There I build a team of 60 engineers (40 with very specialized PhDs in various aspects of robotic dexterous manipulation), and delivered a functioning robot into CES within a single year timeframe.  I continued to serve as architect at Aeolus, though the sheer size of the team and our fast growth rate really pulled me increasingly away from the code.  The entire OS was in the many many tens of thoughts of lines of code (likely beyond 100K lines, but I cannot vouch for that with certainty.)
- I co-founded Martian Robotics, where I lead a 13 person engineering team as CTO.  I was also the architect for our Robot OS for an autonomous dexterous robot.
- As a program Manager at DARPA I envisioned, sold, and managed over $200M in R&D prototypes that involved over 500 professors, post docs, grad students and programmers.  Both the Machine Reading program and the Bootstrapped learning programs included >$3M subteam that created the APIs and execution frameworks the teams were required to operate within.  I lead both of these efforts.
  
  
  RELEVANT SKILLS
- Strong ability to lead a teams under time and scope shift pressures
- Strong ability to hire top talent 
  	(even hyper specialists where only dozens exist the world over)
- Strong ability to architect and take stuardship of a deeply technical vision
- Strong ability to ideate with Micheal on language choices...  
  	would be a partner and carrier of a vision (that I believed in).
- Strong ability to roadmap pragmatic paths "spiral" optimally to 
  	(a) reduce key technical risks and (b) gain world mindshare sooner
- Transformation of software engineering via paradigm shift is a life passion.
- Very fast learner of new, abstract, complex ideas.
- Fast tempo in ideation discussions (and LOVE them!)
  
  I have strengths fomenting consensus around deep architectural choices, and designing APIs, rather than spending my hours coding. In my work at Analytics Fire, Aeolus, and Martin, I was the architect that co-developed the APIs and approach constraints these systems were build upon. So I have even more strengths on the CTO than VP of engineering side. 
  
  
  
  
  _
#### 2021.07.28 - Meeting with Nick and Michael

-- Need for money fucks things up
	-- I SHOULD be accountable to my 'users'
	-- But need to turn $300K plus profit quickly, limit impact & directions
	-- I had it, and I let it go.
	-- On paper I wrote $150K-$400K before marriage.
	-- Mid-stream on two decade idea.  Sad to drop it.
-- Depressed.  anxious.  shell shocked.  Not in a good decision-making frame

Ready to sacrifice all
- Was ready to sacrifice everything be in a spot where my time is spent thinking hard thoughts, in impactful areas, alternating with deep dives into the market to make one connect.
  	(not clear I have skills.  I have 3 year attention, but maybe not 10yr)
  
  -- Don't feel I spent last 10 years in an effective way.
  	-- Always favored less risky, less motivating paths first, never went beyond
  	-- Nearly all attempt were not well formed, or nor well mentored
  	-- Whole time were string half attempts, made w/ half conviction,
  	-- My aim was lowest risk path to lifestyle, so never reached.
  	-- Good evidence that I do operate very differently given different context 
  
  -- Nick says
  	-- Lack conviction to drive in a single direction.  True.
  But that is because multiple directions are all acceptable
  	-- Perhaps too late to take on the risk of a startup 
  	-- All have significant risks
  
  -- When happy:
  	Technical Ideation.  & Leading a team technically.  Enjoy multiplication.   
  -- Aspects:
  	Enjoy super deep, on multiple.  Thinking time exists. flexibilty which first
  
  _
#### 2021.07.21 - Pre Google Interlude.  Why?
- UNIFORM -- Build stuff before the long winter
- BATSWING --
- VISIO -- 
  
  _
#### 2021.07.27 - Nick's request info

1. Make a decision tree of the choices you are evaluating & probably outcomes
2. Score the outcomes based on 3-5 metrics you care about
3. Assign probability to the outcomes
4. Talk to like 5 people in the know & ask them for feedback. They will probably give you feedback that updates the tree, especially around probability, but maybe also sanity checks about what it’s like

_
#### 2021.08.25 - Next Job Framework

**PATHS**
	+++ MEGA CORP (IC Specialist, Technicalish-Manager, Researchy-Group)
	.5y to 1.5y before starting.  (preserve soul, retraining, raise Eli)
	++. FUNDED STARTUP (R-ZERO)
	heads down 100% focus for several years  (not Aeolus level insanity)
	-- synergistic w mega-corp path, good pay, synergistic w/ AF, ML
	x.. MY OWN STARTUP (KM-CO, Teamsaver, Marketplace)  customer+funding+partner
	xxx CONSULTING
	xxx AI SAFETY



**INSIDE GOOGLE**
- **TECHNICAL WORK** -- Happiest if I would describe my work as TECHNICAL.
	- **SOLUTION FRAMING** - working with stakeholders, engineers, etc. to help frame basic approach, outcomes, paths, etc.
	- **ARCHITECT** - working at the next level in leading API/architecture etc
	- **APPLIED RESEARCH** - working AS an applied researcher trying to develop new ways to solve important problems.  (programming & experimentation)
- **AREA** -- ML and (AI + Robotics)
	- ML CENTERED DEPTH -- PhD-IC-level abilities only in this area.
	- ROBOTICS / AI BREADTH -- Ability to ideate and manage across wide range
- **PRODUCT/INNOVATION ORIENTED JOB** --
	- +++ Love to be an ML expert framing and mentoring multiple projects
	- Happy to manage portfolio only if it involves significant tech thinking
	- Could be tech lead for a single project too.
- **VALUE-ADD**:  <TECHNICAL>  <LEADERSHIP>  using  <ML> 
  
  
  **KEY ACTIVITIES**
- Refreshing ML skills
- Calls (Ben CEO-leaving Amazon; Nina Researcher @ Amazon; Praveen @ Google)
	- Exploring ML-Research roles.
- talk w. some recruiters
  
  **NARROWING THE APERTURE**
- My center is ML (with spokes out to: AI, Robotics, Leadership+, Research++)
  
  
  _
#### ---

-- If a VC-liked Teamsaver I would pay to attempt it.
-- If I had a strong "sales" partner, and excited cust segment for Marketplace
	I would do it.
-- x


_
### 2021.04.00 - >>> TOP   -- NEXT JOB <<<
#### SUMMARY

PATHS
- GOOGLE - ML+AI/Robotics; Techlead+IC/Mgr
- UF - OpenBricks; KmCo
- CTO - Rzero
  
  MATRIX		UF	PAY		FUN
  GOOGLE-IC	15h	500K	
  GOOGLE-MGR	5h	800K	
  CTO			5h	300K+?	
  DAD			30h	0K
#### INFO
##### References
http://turing.com
##### Quotes
[Quora - what is an hourly rate for a CTO](https://www.quora.com/What-is-an-hourly-rate-for-a-CTO) 
-- Startup CTO  $80 - $160/hr. (experience get double or triple)
_
#### ACTIVITIES
##### - Google
- Read about Amazon 14principles
- Build book of management stories
- STAR - acronym for mgt decions makking?
#### PATHS
#####  - AI-AGENDA
#####  - UF - Corp KM
#####  - UF - ML Workbench
#####  - PRODUCT
Team Saver; Smart Scale; Handheld Sizer
#### Speciality Areas
- VISION
- ROBOTICS
- NLP
- AI Generalist
- ML Generalist
- Deep Learning (Vision-space, NLP-text, Audio-time)
### 2021.09.22 - >>> WP    -- NEXT JOB ACTIVITIES <<<
#### 2021.10.01 - -- SITUATION SUMMARY --

The business I own is going to transition (in a good way) soon, so I need to select my next adventure.

I need to understand the realism of some paths I am considering.
My enthusiasm for a job can be quite hot or cold based on details of that job, so I need to strategize to craft a good path.


=== BACKGROUND ===

**MY SITUATION**
- I have leadership experience and Phd in: AI/Machine Learning/Robotics.
- The company I founded will transition, so I need a new gig.
  
  **PRIOR PLAN**
- **BIG-DIFFERENT** -- think thru secondary problems around central insight
- **JUST-DO-ONE** --
- **LIFESTYLE INCOME** -- Obtain moderate/sufficient lifestyle income, then persue realization of ideas based on impact, not based on income potential.
- **HALF-EFFORTS** --
- **PATH NOW IN DOUBT** -- Marriage, Child, Bay area costs, Business transition all cast this plan into grave doubt.
  
  **COGNITIVE DISSONANCE**
- **EMPERORS-NEW-CLOTHES** -- Verbal, Deep, Fast, Broad, 
  	Depth-to-avoid-Bordom, Flighty/Slow/Sprinter, TooVerbose/Complex, 
  	Execution Exp, Too willing to express Negative
- **GROWN-LAZY** -- 
  
  **POSSIBLE PATHS FORWARD**
- **KMCO** -- Start my own company based in knowledge management.
- **FAANG** -- Well paid AI guy in a big co (as manager or individual contributor)
- **CTO** -- Several opportunies are in front of me.
  
  **MY PASSION PROJECT**
- **10+ YRS OF HEAVY SIDE WORK** -- An approach for socially constructed software
- **KNOWLEGE MANAGEMENT STARTUP** -- Side work could provide basis for a startup
- **THREE SEPERABLE SIDES TO THIS PASSION**
	- UNIFORM -- An technical approach for building interoperable SW languages
	- KM -- A Knowlege management product for used by individuals&corporations
	- MKT -- A marketplace that maximizes participant pay not capital profits
	  
	  **ABOUT ME**
- **ALWAYS IDEATING / SHORT ON EXECUTION** -- By far the KM thread is deepest of all my interests, but my M-O is to forever consider societal problems, and try to find a key insight to break the impasse then flesh the insight out towards a solution.  I will go VERY (way too) deep in considering if ...  how this new solution might operate.  Most excited when I feel I have hit upon some _**novel insight**_ leverage on a long standing problem.  Such insights do not come at command, they come randomly, thus these interest are extremely randomly distributed, (and not that tied to my area of training).
  	==> My (and other's) assessment is that these ideas are novel and valuable,
  yet the overall outcome is negligable w/o followup execution.
- **IDEAS ARE BIG / HARD TO MONETIZE** -- feel my largest contributions would happen if I need not try to simultaneouly earn personal money from projects.
- **OTHER EXAMPLE IDEAS**
	- **EDUCORP** -- Self-funded education & business ownership for the very poor
	- **TEAMSAVER** -- Remote-work with in-person like interpersonal connectivity
	- **FINANCIAL NEEDS**
- **MONEY IN THE BANK** -- Have saved couple million that provide 6-figure salary
- **IN BAY AREA W/ NEW BABY** -- But I live in bay area with a young kid and a wife working at Google, but expecting private schools etc.
- WAS EXPLICIT BEFORE MARRIAGE -- 
  
  
  
  
  
  _
### 2021.05.06 - >>> BOOK  -- DESIGNING YOUR LIFE <<<
#### 2021.04.27 - INDEX CARD SUMMARY
##### _

See Job Matrix in Evernote Journal

KEY CONSIDERATIONS
- FREEDOM:
- ENGAGEMENT:
- PAY:		
  
  
  **FREEDOM**
- **MULTIPLE** -- Idea of working on only one goal for years feels limiting.
  	Want to work on multiple ideas, and follow where they lead, not the money.
- **FOLLOW** -- Ideas not money.  Sometimes importance and money align, and that is great.  But when they don't it is great to ignore the money.
- **SOCIETAL VALUE** -- Ability to work on ideas that w. outsized societal impact
- **NON MEGA CORP** -- Have impact; not primarily/entirely on a corp bottom line
- **TOP EDGE** -- Top edge of my technical ability to operate
- **UNIQUE TO ME** -- ``first reaction should be.  Huh, what?   That is dumb!   or That wont work''
- **CAT PERSON** -- Great joy in choosing tempo / timing of work.  Tend to "get religion" about topic and work frantically.  Other times it is pulling teeth
  
  ==> Such freedom is likely too much to ask.  Just want a chunk of it per day/wk
  
  
  JOB ENGAGEMENT
- Technical Vision Leader -- Spending hours refining and presenting a technical vision.
- Puzzle pieces -- I enjoy thinking how to fit some complex pieces together.
- Talking -- I enjoy presenting and talking about idea.
- Ownership -- Feeling like a own a thing matters
- Value -- Feeling that the work I do actually matters to the world
  
  
  JOB DRUDGERY
- Have to do it now -- When I have to do a thing, even a thing I really want to do, it generates significant resistance.
- Tedious Activities -- Low brain usage activities that are 'too slow' are really frustrating
  
  
  
  
  TECH LEAD
- HARD -- Some part of the task is technically difficult
- DESIGN -- Building APIs, Architectures
- LEAD -- Some aspect of team leading
  
  
  IMPACT
  
  
  
  
  
  
  DRIVERS
- COOL TECH - Spend good fraction of day working on cool tech
- EGO/IMPACT -
- COULD OWN IT - In principle I could own part of what I produced
  
  
  
  COOL TECH
- Based on thinking long about a tough problem
- Innovations I can imagine w/o pencil and paper
- Thinking
- Want job w/o tons of daily requirements
- Want to work on technical & important stuff
  _
  _
#### 2021.08.26 - BOOK ACTIVITIES
##### - ODDESSY Plans - Three Near Futures
###### DASHBOARD

Job		Resources	Likability	Coherence	Considerations
MGR		++
ML		+++
KmCo	-
CTO		+++


Considerations: Geography, Learning, Impacts,
###### GOOGLE MGR/IC - ML/AI MATRIXED-RESEARCHER GUY
MGR: Same as IC, but less training, less uniform, and more money

TIMELINE YEAR 1
- Y1:	Park at Visio, or Consulting
- Y1:	ML Courses
- Y1:	Publish Uniform; build community
- Y2:	Interviewing & Get job
- Y2:	Heads down learning @ Google
- Y3:	Back to Uniform
- Y3:	Build Social Life @ home and @ google
- Y3:	Leading an interesting project
- Y4:	UF info project w/ open source
- Y4:	First Goog success; building network & leads for many projects
  
  
  
  _
###### KMCO - Marketplace - UNIFORM - Guy
QUESTIONS:
- Who is my 'customer'? what will they pay for?  ML-wizard
  
  SUMMARY:
- Work 24=6x4 hrs per week
  TIMELINE:
- Y1: Publish UF, start nacent community
- Y1: 
  
  NARRATIVE:
- PACE:  Working 60h/w = 10h/day + 10h weekends
-
- VALUE? Live, Bi-Scriptable, Extensible, TightFormatControl, Hetro Connect
- CODE: I spend $50K to develop: Parser, Unicore, Browser, and info app
- DISCORD: I build community of power users and hackers
  
  
  
  
  What does it look like if I choose to focus on KM in the next years?
  
  3 MONTHS
- OUTREACH - I find online communities that are already thinking about KM and tooling.
- _
###### STARTUP CTO GUY
###### UF EFFORT

PARTS:
- 1m	UC-REF IMPL Implementation
- 2m	BASIC LAL
- 4k	BROWSER		Basic two pane browswer w extensible view & cmd
- ??	WIZARD		Extend browser into a multi-pane wizard 
  			bread-crumb, Q/A pane)
- ?? FLOWS		Install: python, pip, aws, 
  
  
  KM TOOL
  
  _
##### - Mindmap for ENGAGED:  Quick Lists(Email, Weekly, Spice Shelf)
QUICK LISTS
DOING EMAILS / WEEKLY TASKS
- Chew thru
	- mindless
		- Very mentally engaging, no time for any other thoughts
		- but easy / fast engagement, next activities is obvious and immediate
	- fast tempo
	- easy wins
- Sense of completion, of throughness
- Sense of total command over situation
- Obvious and automatic -- next task is
- Effortless
- Engaging and totally absorbing
- Fast tempo
	- High paced rythem
- Detail oriented
  
  FIXING SHELVES / SPICES
- Neat piles
	- All in a row
		- Completion
			- 100% done.  satisfaction.
- Physical things
	- visually complete
	- regular geometry
- Efficient
	- saves time later
- Satisfying organization
- Pieces fit together like a puzzle
  _
##### - Mindmap for ENERGIZED: Uniform Thinking
UNIFORM THINKING -- Thinking about and resolving some aspect of Uniform
Writing the associated texts or APIs
- Big
	- **Important / Transformative**
- Getting very abstract details just right
	- **Dan specific idea**
	- Hugely complex and very hard to think about
		- Hammock time;
			- Large swaths of time just thinking
- New way of doing things
	- Teaching others
- Writing it up.  (over and over again)
- How to frame the problem
- Web of ideas tying together in many ways
- insights -- seeing important hard/abstract way things provide value
- Systems thinking
	- Universal mechanism; silver bullet
	- Complex beautiful interactions
	- Puzzle/Problem solving
- Big Mechanism
	- Gears, motors, pulleys
	- Self working
		- Social benefit
		- Strategically aligned
		- Clever workings
	- Details accounted for
	- Working the details out
		- Getting arguments on slide correct
			- fussing over small details
	- Rewriting and rewriting till correct
	- Thinking in my head for hours
	- Getting motivations right
		- Synergies
	- Complex, compelling, intricate interconnections
	- Hard to get right, needs struggle, others cant
	  
	  _
##### - Mindmap for IN FLOW
_
##### 2021.05.06 - WORK VIEW

	Work is the technical building of value:
	- OWNERSHIP --
		- BUILDING -- I am organized around the idea of _building_ things--BUILDING a THING that has tangible value for some 'customer' community
		- LEADERSHIP -- Having some vision/leadership scope fits best w/ my personality.
	- TECHNICAL DEPTH -- Somewhere in my life there needs to be some hard problem solving going on.  Work is a very natural place to find this activity.
	- IMPACT
		- JUSTIFICATION -- To myself and to others this output is central to my value.
		- WORTHWHILE - Work should move society forward.  Be a net gain.  The more people affected, the greater the gain.
		- MY PRIME OUTPUT -- For me, my "prime output" in life are the ideas that I realize, in both a technical and social sense.
		- VISION -- some dan-specific ideas are being executed
	- ASPECTS:
		- INVENTING / BUILDING -- I spend my time 'inventing' things
		- SOCIAL SYSTEMS -- I am driven towards a kind of 'systems' thinking.
		- ORGANIZATIONAL / REPRESENTATIONAL -- I tend to think about org and rep
	- SPRINT -- I am a sprinter, and am comefortable working intensly in a sprint, but I flag if doing admin/low-mental work for too many hours per month.
	- MONEY & FREEDOM -- Money buys freedom from the drudgery of work that does not stem from innate desire to create.  Money supports the family, and allows me to go where interest dictates rather than where money is plentiful.
	- FULFILLMENT - I am happiest when I am building/inventing.
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  	DETAILS
	- TECHNICAL -- At times in my life when my job became more "management" I am driven to create side projects which are technical building.
	- INVENT -- I am always 'inventing' things.  Thinking about the problems around me, and trying to see new ways to address them.  I stick with a few problems over many years, but I spend almost all of my time thinking thru solutions that I don't get feedback on, or try out in the world.
	- SOCIAL SYSTEMS -- Many of my ideas are "social systems" or self-working process in nature.
	- DETAILED DESIGN -- I am driven to think about the biggest of pictures, but then like to try to THINK THRU solutions down to pretty detailed levels.
	  
	  	_
##### 2021.05.10 - LIFE VIEW

	Why Are we here?
	- **EXPERIENCES** -- _For the experiences we have_
	  		Measured by the subjective value we attach both at the time and after
	- **CONTRIBUTIONS** -- _For the contributions we make_
	  		Being part of, giving to, & receiving from others within a society we build
	- **GROWTH** -- _For the growth we undergo_
	  		To grow in faith, wisdom, and understanding
	  
	  	What is Meaning/Purpose of life?
	- First, it is an adopted/constructed thing, but that fact should not and does not reduce its validity or importance.
	- For me, the "why are we here" goals are ends unto themselves
	  
	  	Relation To Others
	- In the most important sense, we are peers of all others.
	- And building/living a relation with them is central to life.
	  
	  	Good & Evil
	- Good is moving towards and living our purpose
	- Evil is moving away or destroying our purpose, or doing that to another
	  
	  	Higher Power
	- I live my life beliving there is a higher power, though I will likely never know this with certainty.
	  
	  	Role of joy, sorrow, justice, injustice, love, peace, and strife in life?
	- These are the backdrop of experiences, contributions, and growth.
	  
	  
	  	_
##### energized, engaged, in flow
#### 2021.07.21 - INSIGHTS LOG
##### 2021.09.21 - SUMMARY OF WORK THAT FITS

Leadership over deeply-technical projects involving AI, ML, or Robotics

ELEGANCE -- Love to think about and create things requiring extreme elegance
- ARCHITECTURES / APIS / DESIGNS
  
  HARD-TECHNICAL / HIGH-ABSTRACTION / IN-MY-HEAD
- PROBLEM FRAMING / PROBLEM APPROACH / ALGORITHM DEVELOPMENT
  
  STRATEGIC
- FRAMING, VISION, HIRING, PERSUASION, PITCHING, 
  
  LEADING / MENTORING
- JUMPING IN; PROPOSING/FEEDBACKING
  
  PROBLEM SOLVING -- HOW TO MODEL / APPROACH PROBLEM --
- Selecting HW platform for visio
- Designing algs to track basketball
  
  MANAGMENT (Project lead, Manage)
- Guiding / Tracking
  
  REACTIVE
- Naturally jump into things presented.  Fast to understand and act.
- Focused on what is in front of me.
- Need reminders to check things NOT in front of me.
  
  RESEARCH IN DL
  
  
  NEAR MISS -- Can perform well, but not my passion, nor place of excellence
- Project Scope, Schedule Management, Execution Tracking -
- Management of People -
- Ownership of project - is a passion, but working many is more natural
  
  
  Which Job Title Best Fit?
  
  
  _
#### 2021.07.20 - ACTIVITY LOG
##### 2021.09.13 -- Writing up yet another idea (Alloy/crypto ownership)

Even as I am trying to really converge on which paths I will take, somehow I find myself thinking thru the details of yet another big idea.

This is really my M-O.  I am positively DRIVEN to think about:

-- yet another idea often focused on:
- Some big impact
- Solving some social-interactions problem
- A technically complex "clever" approach 
  -- My M-O is to simply think hard and at a detailed level about how one would approach all the various aspects of the problem in question.
  
  
  
  _
##### 2021.09.03 -- WORK: happy to chat fast; but then hand details off to others
- I enjoyed figure out how to address NIO and Dropwater
- But got ansy after even just 30 min of writing it up.  
  	happier to hand off details
  
  
  _
##### 2021.08.30 -- Inbox zero
- a goto activity for me is to read and process EASY emails
- want to switch away from any task when it gets harder except Uniform.
- like to execute easy quick tempo tasks for longer (emails, blogs, recipes)
- tend to want to swap tasks after 15min or so.  even doing this list was a bounce away from doing my three energy giving word maps.
  
  _
##### 2021.08.30 -- Waste Time - Blog reading/responding - emails and tasks.
- These days I spend way too much time reading blogs.
- I spent hours giving my feedback to others that I read.
- I don't want huge followers, I am just compelled to engage once I have thought and have come to a conclusion about a subject.
  
  _
##### 2021.08.26 -- Procrastinate
- When I get ready to work, I will procrastinate by doing many organizational tasks first:
	- read emails
	- read medium/blogs
	- organize todo lists, do quick items
	- do weekly tasks
	- _
##### 2021.08.26 -- Shelving / recipes
- I really like to organize things, spent hours designing and building shelving for ingredients, getting labels & containers.
- Spent many hours optomizing recipes so they would be time efficient to make.
- So time spent cooking is not valued by me, but time spent ORGANIZING to cook is compelling (even if not really so very fun)
  
  _
##### 2021.06.00 -- QL modelling
- When QL came to me with several problems about how to model some aspect of self driving, I really found it fun to brainstorm how to attack the problem.
- I think for me the most fun part, is struggling to see the best way to attach the problem.
- I also like helping others to attack the problem, then not having to screw around with the details involved in actually implementing it.
  
  _
##### 2021.06.00 -- QL Hacking
I also then helped out by coding several parts of the data analytics process in python.  This was also fun.  I think doing it all day would get tedious, but if that were <=25% of my time it would be ideal.

_
##### 2021.07.25 -- Flighty Freddie
- While working on this activity log, I so badly want to jump to another activity.  (even a valuable one)  but the impulse is so fast that if I followed it, I would be jumping from one thing to the next is a very inefficient way.
  
  _
##### 2016.00.00 -- Bizzy Robotics - Early days
I was naturally pulled into my work at Bizzy.  I was happy that in the evening I still was working on Uniform, but with Joe at the office, and with the CTO leadership role, I naturally fell into a pretty driven tempo.
- Worked on my "architecture" stuff too much.
- Didn't attend to impt aspects of leadership (lack of proclivity and skill)
- Gain value from being leader.
- GOOD: at relationship aspect of job.  good at vision and leadership.
- CORRECTABLE:  was too 'hot headed'.
	- did not build regular handoff & check in processes
	  
	  _
##### 2021.07.22 -- Foxglove robotics development platform
Got excited thinking about the idea of making a robotics-dev-studio that is efficient for doing robotics development work.  In general I think I am really motivated and excited to think about making efficient-to-use tools and processes.


_
##### 2021.07.21 -- Marcel response (flow)
When I saw marcel's note, I just could not help but to write my response.  Totally threw off my whole morning.  Immediately fought to load some needed open source (which I normally hate).  Each time I tried to work on something else, my brain kept going back to details about it.  really extremely hard for it to not just spontaneously break back into my thinking while on other topics.  Just gave up and wrote the reponse.

_
##### 2019.00.00 -- Block Chain
Operated in flow for months trying to build a new block chain.
- The ideas seemed very big.  I imagine large impact.
- Lots of creativity borne from just thinking hard for hours solving hard technical sub-problems.
  
  _
##### 2021.07.20 -- Jump jump jump**
When I am working on a thing that I am drawn to, I will push to work more and more hours.  Easily dropping other things I want/need to do.  When it is an activity that I resist, then I find it overwhelming to want to switch away from this thing.  Right now I am trying to do my Job matrix, and I want to switch away.  It stresses me to think about it.  and I am not quite sure what I should put down on it.

_
##### 2021.07.19 -- Marcel response  -- couldn't stop writing it!**
I receieved his response email, and I immediately wanted to think thru my response.  Couldn't stop writing it up, until it was done.  Was willing to re-read and correct it -- even as I kinda hate doing that.

_
##### 2021.07.19 -- Thinking while walking
When walking my mind repeatedly returns to details of Uniform, and how I might frame and say part of it.  Or less so, how I might resolve this or that techical detail
_
#### 2021.07.28 - DECISION PATH
- GOOGLE et al is the back stop -- this what I do when all else fails
	- Specialties:  AI/ML, Management, Robotics/Vision, NLP
- INTERLUDE -- likely I have an interlude of 6mo to 2yr before.  what do I do?
	- PREP for GOOGLE
	- Stage side project for some activity over next decade
- MAYBE
	- VISIO --
	- CONSULTING --
	- NoCode, 
	  _
#### 2021.05.10 - PATHS
DEEP-AI: Pundit -> Google
CORP-KM:
SUSTAIN: Jason, TeamSaver, 

MISSION?
#### 2021.04.14 - Dan O Drivers & Futures
##### Interests
KNOWLEDGE SYSTEMS
SELF WORKING SYSTEMS
MACHINE LEARNING
_
##### Problem Solving 
THE FUN PART -- 
Find most interesting is the "how is it going to work" part.
Love taking it from the most general to most detailed, as long as not obvious
_
##### Make a difference
I want to do something that matters.  to society.  to science
To a ?smaller? degree, something that is recognized.
_
##### Diversity / Direction
Many things interest me.  I hate the idea of getting trapped thinking about one
I tend to get "caught"

_
##### FUTURES
###### MyCo - KM|SMB|BRICK|RECO
###### Corp
_
##### CORP FUTURES
- ML Research --
- Manager
- Easy IC -- 
  _
##### DO SOMETHING THAT MATTERS

_
##### >>> WEAKNESSES / ISSUES <<<
##### COMPLETION
I have trouble completing a thing, it grows larger until too large to complete
_
##### FOCUS
I can focus on a thing when it 

_
#### 2020.10.02 - An assessment of me


Quick Observations:
- IDEAS -- I focus on the technical: the big idea, and technical details
- COMMITMENT -- I systematically dodge certain commitment steps
- CAT -- I jump from idea to idea
- VARIABLE -- impt stuff per day, can vary from near zero to good
- BURSTY -- I can execute well as a burst, but not continuous
  	(except SW or idea coding)
- LIMIT -- seem to have daily limit (3h), not effective after
- WORKY -- I am always "working" its my mental mode
- SWEET SPOT
  
  
  SWEET SPOT -- I dive to this place often
- technical idea
- "of the mind" -- just pencil and paper, no research, etc.
- MINE -- I feel the idea is one other's don't see
- SYSTEMATIC -- idea is a systems idea relating to how things work
- BULLET -- idea is single "silver bullet" for some acknowledged problem
  
  AVERSION
- HOP -- Love pushing deep into an idea, but after certain
- Research
- Execution
- Commitment
- PRAGMATIC SHORT TERM
- RISK AVERSE at commitment stage
  
  
  PRETENDING -- pretending I might do a thing, but knowing in heart I wont
  With JASON flirted, but was never going to say yes, but spent time pretending
  
  
  
  _
  
  
  _
# ### LOG ###