  
 [[DYL]]   [Areas](Areas.md)    [Paths](__Paths__.md)   

# TODO [[Learning|learn]], [[BeVC|BeVC]], [[BeFAANG|BeFAANG]].
## = [[DYL]]  
- [ ] [[DYL]] Dan one-pager (from quick pass on earlier chapters)
- [ ] [[DYL]] Build 3 Odyssey plans.
- [ ] [[DYL]] Pick leading odyssey one


## = FRAMING
- Choose title for linked-in
- Is my resume good?  how to know?

## .



# TOPICS

## = AREAS OF SPECIALIZATION

### - ML - DL - Vision - NLP - AI 

### - Web3 - 



## = STRENGTHS & DESIRES / WEAKNESSES & DISLIKES

STRENGTHS & DESIRES
- VISION/IDEA - Driving a societally valuable / impactful idea into practice.
	- POSSIBILITIES - I am in love with the possibilities of technology.
- TECHNICAL -  Spending some fraction of my time in deep problem solving.
	- It is not necessary for me to be the one coding/doing it (but I could)
	- But it IS necessary that I have a significant/central role in the problem solving
- PROTOTYPING - I enjoy focusing on the earliest phases of innovation


ML technologist
I am leading a modest team in prototyping novel application of ML to a societally relevant problem





# REF
   [nj22_contents](nj22_contents.md),   [Coaches](Coaches.md),  [FAANG](FAANG.md):  [@Amazon](@Amazon.md),   [War_Stories](__War_Stories__.md) 
- [Medium about expert consulting](https://highestpayinggigs.com/expert-networks/)    

# LOG
### 2021-04-14 - Dan O Drivers & Futures
#### Interests
KNOWLEDGE SYSTEMS
SELF WORKING SYSTEMS
MACHINE LEARNING
_
#### Problem Solving 
THE FUN PART -- 
Find most interesting is the "how is it going to work" part.
Love taking it from the most general to most detailed, as long as not obvious
_
#### Make a difference
I want to do something that matters.  to society.  to science
To a ?smaller? degree, something that is recognized.
_
#### Diversity / Direction
Many things interest me.  I hate the idea of getting trapped thinking about one
I tend to get "caught"

_
#### FUTURES
##### MyCo - KM|SMB|BRICK|RECO
##### Corp
_
#### CORP FUTURES
- ML Research --
- Manager
- Easy IC -- 
  _
#### DO SOMETHING THAT MATTERS

_
#### >>> WEAKNESSES / ISSUES <<<
#### COMPLETION
I have trouble completing a thing, it grows larger until too large to complete
_
#### FOCUS
I can focus on a thing when it 

_
### 2020-10-02 - An assessment of me


Quick Observations:
- IDEAS -- I focus on the technical: the big idea, and technical details
- COMMITMENT -- I systematically dodge certain commitment steps
- CAT -- I jump from idea to idea
- VARIABLE -- impt stuff per day, can vary from near zero to good
- BURSTY -- I can execute well as a burst, but not continuous
 	(except SW or idea coding)
- LIMIT -- seem to have daily limit (3h), not effective after
- WORKY -- I am always "working" its my mental mode
- SWEET SPOT
  
  
  SWEET SPOT -- I dive to this place often
- technical idea
- "of the mind" -- just pencil and paper, no research, etc.
- MINE -- I feel the idea is one other's don't see
- SYSTEMATIC -- idea is a systems idea relating to how things work
- BULLET -- idea is single "silver bullet" for some acknowledged problem
  
  AVERSION
- HOP -- Love pushing deep into an idea, but after certain
- Research
- Execution
- Commitment
- PRAGMATIC SHORT TERM
- RISK AVERSE at commitment stage
  
  
  PRETENDING -- pretending I might do a thing, but knowing in heart I wont
  With JASON flirted, but was never going to say yes, but spent time pretending
  
  
  
  _
  
  
  _



