# BL.Journal.2006\_11\_19e --

    PEOPLE AND BACKGROUND


    > (#2) Relevant subfields or communities
    >

    The International Artificial Intelligence in Education Society
    (<<>>). This group probably houses the largest
    concentration of ITS researchers.

    The Intelligent Tutoring System conference participants (
    <<>>). This conference series has been around for
    quite awhile now and there is a conference in Taiwan 26-30 June 2006.

    User Modeling, Inc. (<<>>). I actually was one of the founders
    of this non-profit organization which sponsors the International User
    Modeling conferences.

    IEEE P1484 Learning Technology Standards committee (<<>>).
    This group has been trying to develop an IEEE standard to make it easier to
    share courseware. MITRE was very active in P1484 in the early stages.

    Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL) group (<<>>). Another
    group working on learning technology standards that has been successful with
    its SCORM standard to make it easier to share learning modules and
    components.


    > (#3) Specific curricula that are somehow encoded in a way that could
    >            facilitate the construction of these ladders.


    ADL might have some examples of learning modules that were written to
    conform to the SCORM standard that could be helpful. The IEEE P1484 Learning
    Technology Standards committee may also have examples of learning modules
    written in their learning object metadata standard.

    >
    > (#4) Simulators, or training expert systems, etc that would serve a components
    >            in these ladders
    >

    There was a lot of work in these in the 1980s and 1990s but little since
    then due to funding cuts in training research. Wes Regian funded some
    simulator toolkits at Human Resources Directorate. Galaxy Scientific (
    <<>>) did some of that work for Wes. More
    recently, Stottler Henke ( <<>>) has done some
    training simulation work that might be relevant.

    - Show quoted text -
    >
    > Had a great time at our meeting,
    >
    > Thanks,
    > Dan

