# 2003Trip --


    REMAINING PAYMENT BY PERSON
    ---------------------------
    Irina   311        311  *
    Serge   311        311  *
    SueAnne 311-71=    240  *
    John    311        311  *

    Minjoo  266        264  *
    David   266-205=   61   *
    Dan     266-2860-175=  (2769)
    Yoshiko 266        266  *

    Vanda   161-32=    129  *
    Rafah   161-52=    109  *
    Phil    161        161  ?  sent but not cashed
    Elby    161-30=    131

    Yashin  146        146  x
    Despina 146-84=    62   *
    Juan    146        146  *
    Sabine  146-29=    117  *
                      ----
                       -4  Cross check, close enough!

    Total payments minus total bill
    311*4 + 266*4 + 161*4 + 146*4 - 3538 = -2   Also close enough.
     
     
     

    Ok, I just had to pay my credit card bill, this was incentive to get off my butt!
    Here is how everthing came out. All that great food & drink came to only $10 per
    person per nite.  Plus a basic rate of $60 per person per nite.
    She says we put a hole in one of the leather chairs in the living room by pushing 
    it into some lamp behind it; this will add about another $3 to the per day rate.
    Who knows if we really did, but I'm not sweating it, were were playing musical
    furntiure through the whole weekend.



    Many have sent me notes about having fun.  What a great time!  
    Everybody helped out when needed, watched to see that 
    that everyone had someone to ski with on the slopes.
    And shoved many cars out of many ditches!

    This kind of enthusiasm makes a group fun to be with. Thanks.

    ciao,
    dan




    Here is what everyone paid in:
     $52  Rafah 
    $205  David 
     $84  Despina 
     $30  Elby 
     $32  Evanthia 
     $71  Sue Anne 
     $29  Sabine 
    ---- 
     503  Sub Total
     175  Chair
    2860  House Rental
    ---- 
    3538/16 = 221 ($73 per perseon per day) 
     
    - (4) Master Bedroom  (+30*3) = 221+90 =  311
      Irina, Serge, SueAnne, John 
    - (4) Private Bedroom (+15*3) = 221+45 =  266
      Minjoo, David, Dan, Yoshiko 
    - (4) Twin beds       (-20*3) = 221-60 =  161
      Evanthia, Rafah, Phil, Elby 
    - (4) Living Room     (-25*3) = 221-75 =  146
      Yashin, Despina, Juan, Sabine 


     
     
     
    SEND out phone numbers. 
    Send out better directions. 
     
                                   
     
    YA-SHIN LIN ,  
    Dan Oblinger , 
    Yoshiko Jo , 
    mlee@brobeck.com,  
    deligne@us.ibm.com,  
    "Rafah Hosn" , 
    "Evanthia Papadopoulou" , 
    "Juan Huerta" , 
    dstylianou@umassd.edu 
    bergmanl@us.ibm.com, 
    "Irina Rish" , 
    "Philip Yook" , 
    Sue Anne , 
     
     
    Andrea Y  
    Sunhee Kim , 
     
    YES 
    === 
     
    1  Minjoo   T 
    13 David    T 
     
    2  John     M 
    3  Sue Ann 
     
    4  Dan      P 
    5  Yoshiko    
     
    9  Juan     P 
    10 Despina 
     
    14 Irina    M 
    15 Serge 
     
    6  Rafah    C 
    7  Sabine   C+ 
    8  Evanthia C     real bed 
    11 Ya-Shin  C+ 
    12 Larry    T     real bed 
    16 Philip   T+ 
     
    17 Andrea 
     
     
    Rooms 
    - 2people  Master #1  + bath 
      Irina & Serge 
    - 2people Master #2  + bath 
      Minjoo & David 
    - 2people Third bed Room 
      John & Sue Ann 
    - 2people Small Twins Room 
      Dan & Yoshiko 
    - 4people Big Twins room 
      Larry, Evanthia, Phil, Rafah 
    - 4 Living Room  (two fold out couches) 
      Juan & Despina, Ya-shin, Sabine 
     
    - (4) Master Bedroom  (+30) 
    - (4) Private Bedroom (+15) 
    - (4) Twin beds       (-15)  -20 
    - (4) Living Room     (-30)  -25 
     
     
     
    CAR1:  [minjoo], david, sue ann, john     (from NYC) 
    CAR2:  [despina], yashin                  (from way up north) 
    CAR3:  [irina], serge,  
    CAR4:  [rafah],                           (she may leave on Sat morning) 
    CAR5:  [dan], 
    CAR6:  [sabine],  
     
    Sabine, Evanthia 
     
    YKT GROUP 
    rafah, juan, dan, yoshiko, larry, phil, sabine, evanthia 
     
     
    (800) 53-sugar 
    Rent:   Fri: $19  Sat&Sun: $52 
    Lift:   Fri:48 Sat:57 Sun:57 
     
     
     
    --- 
    Dinner: 
      Valley Pizza  in waits field 
      The Den before Rt 17 & 100 
      Rositas (on sugarbush access road)  
     
     
    ---- 
    Jan 30, 
    $1000 +  
     
    3 Bath 
    10-15 min 
     
     
    5 Fold out  
    7 Third bed  
    4 Master bedroom  (Irina and Serge 
     
     
     
    Thur >3  -  Sun  <11 
     
    $900x3 + 160 = 2860   
     
    Dec 30 - $2860  
     
     
     
     
    - <<>>?  #bed #people #bd. rooms 
    - pets? 
     
     
    - directions 
    - bedrooms 
    - Amenities  8 person ja 
     
     
     
    Jan 30 - $2860  
    Susan Alberino 
    126 Main Street 
    New Cannaan, 06841 
     
    Phone:  802 496-2979 
    Susan Work: 203 966 1671 (day) 8084 (evenings) 
     
     
    ----- 
    91 North 
    North Hampton exit 18 
    Lt 
    Saigon 
    2-3rd Light rt 
    rt 
    East side grill 
     
     
    ----- 
    89&91 
    Lebanon 
     
     
    brew house 
    exit 
    rt two 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    [LOG] 
    ===== 
     
    Marco 
     
    huan 
    despina 
     
     
     
    ---------- 
    snow rentals paty 802 253-7460 
    3, br 13   $750/nite 
    Jacuzzi for 8 
    5-10 mintes on trolly 
    4 double and 4 twins  (bunked) 
    Couch 
    Pets yes. 
     
     
    <<>> 
    Tour De Sport  nope. 
    <<>> 
     
    Sugar bush vac. 
    800 537-8427      <------ call 
     
     
    <<>> 
    Cyber Rentals 
    802 228-7158      <----- call 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    __________________- 
     
     
     
     
    It is all coming together.  Here are just a few more details: 
     
     
    BATHROOMS 
    We have tons of room and sleeping space for everyone, but 
    bathrooms are another matter.  We have 4 bathrooms for 16 people,  
    and only three with showers.  Even if you get a shot at a shower 
    in the morning I am guessing its not going to be too toasty. 
     
    Most will probably just want to take a shower the night before. 
    (Your head is going to be in a hat on the slopes anyway.) 
     
     
     
    SLEEPING UPDATE 
    Most people are in the same spots, but here is 
    the latest list: 
     
    Rooms 
    - 2people  Master #1  + bath 
      Irina & Serge 
    - 2people Master #2  + bath 
      Minjoo & David 
    - 2people Third bed Room 
      John & Sue Ann 
    - 2people Small Twins Room 
      Dan & Yoshiko 
    - 4people Big Twins room 
      Larry, Evanthia, Phil, Rafah 
    - 4 Living Room  (two fold out couches) 
      Juan & Despina, Ya-shin, Sabine 
     
    - (4) Master Bedroom  (+30) 
    - (4) Private Bedroom (+15) 
    - (4) Twin beds       (-15) 
    - (4) Living Room     (-30) 
     
     
     
    DINNERS 
     
    WHILE ON THURSDAY DRIVING 
    Here are some places I have heard about.  If you can find them 
    they might be good places to shoot for, on the way up. 
    Remember there may not be much open once you get near our house. 
     
    Dinner: 
      Valley Pizza  in waits field 
      The Den before Rt 17 & 100 
      Rositas (on sugarbush access road)  
     
    Anybody have any thoughts?  Other you have been to? 
     
     
    DINNERS FRI/SAT 
     
    Bring wine.  Lots of it, and anything else that tickles your tongue. 
    Despina Sabine Minjoo and Rafah are handling everything else. 
     
     
    DIRECTIONS 
     
    I can fax the directions, just ask. 
    (I still own minjoo and yashin a fax.) 
     
     
    TRAVEL 
     
    Here is what I know right now about who will go where/when 
     
    CAR1:  [minjoo], david, sue ann, john     (from NYC) 
    CAR2:  [despina], yashin                  (from way up north) 
    CAR3:  [rafah], sabine                    (she may leave on Sat morning) 
    CAR4:  [dan], yoshiko, larry 
     
    dan, yoshiko, larry, irina, serge, phil, rafah, sabine 
     
    Yoshiko and phil will be taking a train from the city to Mt. Kisko 
     
    The remaining people are meeting at the yorktown lab. 
    Lets meet outside the main entrance in the back of ykt. 
    Yoshiko and Phil's train will get them there at 5:10. 
    Lets all meet there at that time.  If you are late and  
    you make us wait for you in the cold.  we will all retailiate 
    by holding you down on the slopes and shoving snow down your 
    shorts. 
     
     
    We need two more drivers, so that we can have one partially empty 
    car come back on Sunday morning.  Irina and Evanthia, can you drive? 
    Any other people who can drive? 
     
     
    MASSAGE 
     
    Mad River Massage is supposed to give good hour long massages. 
    Check 'em out on the web.  Yoshiko and I are getting pummled at 
    6:15 on Saturday. 
     
     
     
     
     
