# ICML-2004 --

    ICML 2004  <<>> oblio@pobox.com+m7

    S03 3p-8p LGA-Calgary U685-1025
    S03 Banaff Transporter.   $87.74

    U04 ICML Tut: Bayes Meth 4 ML
    M05
    T06
    W07
    R08 hotel 403 762 2261
    R08 ICML WS: Stat Rel Learn
    S10
    U11 3:3p-12a Calgary-LGA U1062-408
    F16 hotel done

    ICML & AUAI registered


    XV7M3I

    The Twenty-First International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML 2004) will be held in Banff, Alberta, Canada on July 4-8, 2004 at the Banff Park Lodge. ICML will be collocated with UAI and COLT.

    The early registration deadline for ICML is 23 April 2004.

    Banff is located in Banff National Park, which is one of four adjoining mountain parks comprising more than 7,813 square miles of spectacular Canadian Rocky Mountain landscape.

    The closest international airport is in Calgary, which is 80 miles from Banff.  Delegates are responsible for managing their own travel to and from Banff, but as a convenience we have arranged a 20% discount on a shuttle service from the Calgary International Airport to Banff.

    Please note that these conferences take place during peak tourist season. We strongly advise attendees to book flights, hotels and transportation as soon as possible! 

    For details on ICML 04, please see 
    <<>>

    For more information on Banff, hotels and transportation please see 
    <<>>


    Regards,
    ICML 04




    <<>>
      Login: oblio@us.ibm.com
      Password: ICM-753231632



    An approach to Programming by Demonstration that integrates sequence alignment and inductive generalization.

    <<>>   

    <<>>

    <<>>

    <<>>

    <<>>

    <<>>



    ---
    "From: CN=Vittorio Castelli/OU=Watson/O=IBM"
    "Subject: Re: Reviews"
    ""
    "This is the NIPS rejection

    and this is the ICML rejection


    Cheers,

    - Vittorio
    <<>>
    Vittorio Castelli
    Systems Theory & Analysis Project
    Server Technology Department

    IBM T.J. Watson Research Center
    P.O. Box 218
    Yorktown Heights, NY 10598
    Phone: (914) 945 2396
    FAX:      (914) 945 2141 (Attn.: Vittorio Castelli)
    <<>>
    <<>>
    "All err the more dangerously because each follows a truth. Their mistake lies 
    not in following a falsehood but in not following another truth."

    Pascal

    "
