# XNote --

    contacts

    <<>>
     - licensed to "Daniel Oblinger".
     - key   "CE-0B-EB-31-9C"

     

    === INSTALL ===
    - <<>> <<>>
    - Download from XXXX

    - XNote.exe
      !Register Now
         Licence Holder = "Daniel Oblinger"
         Licence Key = "CE-0B-EB-31-9C"


    === SETUP ===
        


    ============================================

    share-it! order number: 367686095
    ****************************************************************************
    This e-mail was generated by a mail handling system. Please do not reply
    to the address listed in the "From" field.
    Please read the CUSTOMER SERVICE section for answers to your questions.
    ****************************************************************************

    We recommend that you make a backup copy of this e-mail (e.g. print out a
    hard copy).

    Dear Valued Customer,

    Thank you for placing an order with share-it!. You have purchased a product
    by dnSoft Research Group.

    ****************************************************************************
    Contents:

    A. Brief information on product delivery
    B. Details for product delivery for XNote Stopwatch (personal license)
    C. Technical Support
    D. Customer service

    ****************************************************************************
    A. Brief information on product delivery

    Use the license key to unlock the product (see below).


    Please note that you will not receive a delivery by postal mail.

    ****************************************************************************
    B. Details for product delivery for XNote Stopwatch (personal license)

    The product is licensed to "Daniel Oblinger".

    The license key for "XNote Stopwatch (personal license)" is listed below.
    You will need this license key to complete the process and activate the
    product. The license key and the text below originate from the software
    publisher and may be written in another language.

    CE-0B-EB-31-9C
